[Hook - Lil Wayne:]
Uh, what happened, what happened?
Yeah, damn, girl, what happened?
What happened? What happened?
What happened?
I thought you weren't fucking with me no more
Damn, girl, what happened?
I thought you wasn't fucking with me no more
What happened?
What happened?

[Verse 1 - Lil Wayne:]
She said oh, you got that comeback, she said my dick is a necessity
Drop my drawers, and pull out my longevity
She just hop on it, and then she forget everything
Oh man, who’s obsessed with me, when she leave me, she come back like she ain’t never leave
She talk bad about my new bitch, cause we got chemistry
She said it’s not jealousy, allegedly
I thought you wasn’t fucking with me no more
Girl, what happened , you act like you don’t miss me , oh my god you suck at acting
I thought you don’t fuck with me no more, girl I’m laughing
She said, she get real, when I get rid of all her batteries
She be talking about how she moving on with her life, she tired of my shit and she can do
Better
She told herself; she ain’t fucking with me no more
She done lied to herself, she'll lie to who whatever
Talking about, she seen me with such and such
I say it’s nothing, you fucking duck
She said yeah, nigga, what I look like
I said just like my new daughter
She said ohh, you make me sick
I love you , I hate you , I’m leaving , I’m lying
Cause none of them niggas, can never be you, can never be you, I don’t know why
If she’s over me, I look up to the sky, I see her falling for me like a bomb, she said, I know
Your gonna
Miss me when I’m gone, I just co­sign and we make up for lost time
She always say , this is the last time
She love better, than she lie
She always say, this is the last time
She said that last time, wait

[Hook:]
I thought you wasn’t fucking with me no more
Girl, what happened
I thought you wasn’t fucking with me no more
Hold up wait
You’re lying to ya self, (stop lying) you compromise with yaself
I thought you wasn’t fucking with me no more
Hold up wait
I thought you wasn’t fucking with me no more
Hold up wait
Damn girl what happened?
Hold up, hold up, hold up
What happened, what happened?

[Verse 2 - 2 Chainz:]
First you change your email, then ya number became private
I bet you found another nigga you can vibe with
Quit lying to yourself, retrace all ya steps
Fucking with them suckers, they gonna have ya playing with yaself
I’m a smooth operator; you don’t need a vibrator
Licking everything below, the navel, cause I’m able
Ball so maafakin hard, tape my ankle
Ball so maafakin hard , check my bankroll
You talkin bout you don't fuck with a nigga, go outta town like you done with a nigga
Really ain't much done, with a nigga
Straight shots, put liquor on it, and lick it
Put the x in the exceptional, put the x in the extra­ho
I put the x in x and o
I got the game in professional, yeah, my dick is the antidote
You can ride my on­top, like an animal
That time, I wanted to smoke with ya best­friend, I wanna fuck yall on the patio, you miss
When I kiss on
Ya earring, you miss when I kiss on your clit ring
Thats why I put you in this 16, I’ll fuck you and watch you on the big screen
Yeahhhh!!
She said oh, you got that comeback, she said my dick is a necessity, (Lil Wayne)
Drop down my drawers, and pull out my longevity
She just hop on it, and fuck it, everything
She like you know, I’ll never leave
She’s on that dick, like leather seats
You know that, make up sex be extra sweet
So let’s break up, and make up like Pleasure P
You always say , this is ya last time
You always say , this is ya last time
You always say, this is ya last time
You said that last time, girl

[Hook:]
I thought you wasn’t fucking with me no more. girl, what happened
I thought you wasn’t fucking with me no more. girl, what happened
You’re lying to ya self, (stop lying) you compromise with yaself
I thought you wasn’t fucking with me no more
I thought you wasn’t fucking with me no more
You’re lying to ya self, (stop lying) you compromise with yaself
I thought you wasn’t fucking with me no more