(Pac)
Clear enough for ya?
Why you niggas look mad?
Y'all supposed to be happy I'm free!
Y'all niggas look like y'all wanted me to stay in jail
Cold bustas!

Picture me rolling in my 500 Benz
I got no love for these niggas, there's no need to be friends
They got me under surveillance, that's what somebody be telling
Know there's dope being sold, but I ain't the one selling!
Don't want to be another number
I gotta puff a gang of weed to keep from going under
The federals wanna see me dead - niggas put prices on my head
Now I got two Rottweilers by me bed, I feed 'em lead
Now I'm released, how will I live?
Will God forgive me for all the dirt a nigga did, to feed kids?
One life to live, it's so hard to be positive
When niggas shooting at your crib
Mama, I'm still thugging, the world is a war zone
My homies is inmates, and most of them dead wrong
Full grown, finally a man, just scheming on ways
To put some green inside the palms of my empty hands
Just picture me rollin'
Flossing a Benz on rims that isn't stolen
My dreams is censored, my hopes are gone
I'm like a fiend that finally sees when all the dope is gone
My nerves is wrecked, heart beating and my hands is swollen
Thinking of the G's I'll be holdin', picture me rollin'

Can you see me now?
Move to the side a little bit so you can get a clear picture
Can you see it?
Pictue me rollin'
Yeah nigga!
Ay, but peep how my nigga Syke do it to you
Guess who's back?

(Syke)
I got ki's coming from overseas
Cost a nigga 200 G's
I'm a street commando, Nino for example
This lavish lifestyle is hard to handle
So I got to floss 'cause I'm more like a boss player
Thug breded to be a women-layer
So many player haters, imitators steady swanging
Make me wanna start bang banging
So I'm caught up in the game, dress code changed
Packing 40 Glocks, contain 'em or rearrange
All that jealousy and envy coming from my enemies
While I'm sipping on Remy
In front of black Lexus, Chevy's on the roam
'96 big body, sitting on chrome
As we head up out the zone, stone-facing is on
You can admire, but don't look too long
I'm living a dream with triple beams and my pockets bulgin'
It's hard to imagine -- picture me rollin'!

(CPO)
I gots to get the fuck up in it, formulate a caper
'Cause a nigga straight suffering from lack of having paper
My bitch fin' to have a bastard, see?
So I needs to hit a lick, drastically
I see some balding-ass niggas and they slipping in my spot
And, uh, diggin the plots (so what?)
Checking in the park, 'Pac

(Pac)
We caught 'em sleeping, he didn't peep you niggas creeping?
This how we do it every weekend
I dump for madness, it's time to count the profit
CPO, we got the bomb spot, nigga time to clock it
I get the liquor, and you could get the females
This crooked shit that we inflicting getting street sales!

(CPO)
Move smooth as a motherfucker, me and my 9
I'm as cool as a motherfucker: I'mma get mine
Now we satisfied, got the pockets on swollen
Boss Hog and this 'Pac nigga: picture us rollin'

(Pac)
Is y'all ready for me?
Picture me rollin' roll call
You know there's some muh'fuckers out there
I just could not forget about
I wanna make sure they can see me
Number one on my list: Clinton Correctional Facilities
All you bitch ass C.O.'s
Can you niggas see me from there?
Ballin on y'all punk ass!
Picture me rollin', baby
Yeah, all them niggas up in them cell blocks
I told y'all niggas when I come home it's on
That's right nigga, picture me rollin'
Oh, I forgot! The D.A
Yeah, that bitch had a lot to talk about in court
Can the ho see me from here?
Can you see me, ho?
Picture me rollin'
And all you punk police -- can you see me?
Am I clear to you?
Picture me rollin' nigga, legit
Free like O.J. all day
You can't stop me
You know I got my niggas up in this motherfucker
Manute, Pain, Syke, Mopreme
Can you picture us rolling?
Can you see me ho?
Is y'all ready for me? ... We up out this bitch
Any time y'all wanna see me again
Rewind this track right here, close your eyes
And picture me rollin'