(50 Cent)
Yeah... Shit 50 Cent... GGG- G-Unit
(Em:Here we go again)

Shit make you mad when I switch my flow?
You can't understand where I get my dough
50 Cent is on fire 'cause shady sed so
I'm on FIRE

(Eminem)
Everybody in a rush to try get the throne
I just get on the track to set the tone
I'm not trying to use my body as a stepping stone
But don't compare me, I'm better off just left alone
I'm ain't even trying to go there with record sales
I'm just trying to keep it humble and respect myself
Save it up
Keep stepping, in this rep D-12
Keep my nose clean and stay away from weapons and jail
And looking reckless
But if you check my belt
U may see something else that I use to protect myself
A vest to stop a ruben and deflect a shell
And send dem back at your ass faster then it left ur belt
And I don't even carry guns anymore 'cause I don't got to
Got undercover cops that'll legally pop u
And I don't seen a lot of people cross the line
This muthafucker Ja must've lost his mind
That X got him thinking he was DMX
Then he switched to Pac and now he trying to be him next
So which one are you? X? Luke? Pac? or Michael?
Just keep singing the same song, recycle
We all much rather get along then fight you
Me and Halley dance to ur songs, we lyke u
And you really don't wanna step inside a mic dude
C'mon now you know the white boy will bite u
Hurt ur pride dawg and you know I don't lyke to
But I will if I have to
With syllable laughter
With syllable I just slap u [smack]
Killin' you faster then you poppin' pill after
Little pill of dem tabs that shit you on
But if you want it then you got it
You bump this shit too if we didn't diss you on it
But if we lock on it so we can throw as harder then Busta
We bump heads to any mutherfucker that wants ta'
So whatsa deal?
So where's all the tough talk?
When I walked up to ya lyke 'Ja, what up dawg?'
Why didn't you say you had a problem then?
When you standing there wit all ur men
We could've solved it then
I'm a grown man dawg, come holla
All you did was lapdance, smile and swallow
Another one of those little X pills infront of me
And telling me 50 Cent was everything you wanted be

I Know you want to be me
You know you want to be me
You talk so like me
You don't want to bump headz with me

(Tony Yayo)
You couldn't sun me if my father helped you
My punchline is hot my balls will melt you
Ja, you stupid little ... shelves will lift you
Every other week I'm buying a new wristo
I clap at your ass with this chrome thirty eight
Put six through ur hats and seven and three eight
Irv you ain't shook knight you shook knight
I put my life in your whims knife
You know and I know who took your chain
You got robbed two times so ur ass is lame
I'm down to die for this shit all I need is bail
You better stick to the movies, Steven Spiegel