I need some time to ease my mind

Thrusted in a world that I don't know
From my mamas lips between my mamas hips
I'm cuddled by her hands because she understands
It's that bond that keeps the movement movin' on.
Life is surrounded with so many insecurities
Back stabbin' is like breathing when in poverty.
I try to make my sanity, with the insane
God is secondary to most, when they scrap for money.
But, then again money can cause even more death.
When a African becomes a nigger step 'n' fetch 'n' all.
I dare say when price is right you can buy us all.
Well not me, 'cause I don't truly give a care about you.
I'll move in poverty, in wealth but I'll surely move!
Ain't syncopated with your beats or your wack grooves
My break beat is to break away from yo thang
All these things you put on me makes this brother sing...

I need some time to ease my mind.

Mind and soul is even more important then body
Money can put my body in all exotic spaces
Meanwhile my mind and soul remotely dwells
Within that fine spot between all messed up and hell.
And so I move on with confidence of harmony
And do my thang to resist this wack society
'Cause if you don't resist, & I mean consciously
You'll fool your sub-conscious into accepting it.
I ain't acceptin' it - I keep my focus
I keep my focus - I ain't acceptin'it.
Give me a face pencil to draw a smile on me.
Answer my prayer to give my Earthly body inner peace
Answer my prayer to give my Earthly
Body
Inner
Inner peace.
Until that day upon which my souls released!

Need some time need some time
When the sista's say it then you know it's gotta be real!

Thrusted in a world that I don't know
From my mommas lips between my mamas hips
I'm cuddled by her hands because she understands
It's that bond that will keep the movement movin' on
It's that bond that will keep the movement movin' on.
And so I GOTTA BE READY TO RELINQUISH
Gotta be ready to relinquish, my breath of life for struggle.

That is why I tell you...

I need some time to ease my mind.