[Intro - Birdman:]
That Rich Gang lifestyle
Marble floors, gold toilets and chandeliers
Big money nigga take the jet
L.A. hit the bity boolin' in the bondo with a few bitches and they go to trippin'
Drankin' that GTV, that tequila, smokin' them stunna blunts (them big dawgs)
Nigga we neva hungover, poppin' bigger numbers with my niggas Straight B's only
Shout out to my love, my blood, my team
My gang, my family, and nigga ya know what we bleed (you know what we bleed)
404, 305, 504
What's poppin', nigga? B-house of dank, put it in the air
This that YSL, Rich Gang, RHQ, YMCMB
Big B's with a few C's, PeeWee, what's poppin', nigga?
Bankroll mafia; Habeeza, what's brackin', nigga?
The pussy outta line, the pussy get they head bust, ya dig?
B-loc and Bentley, y'all know the business It's B Slime or G5
Rest in peace Tamara and Miss Gladys, boy
(Rich Gang, Rich Girl)

[Hook - Young Thug:]
Givenchy my toes and my bros and my hoes
Givenchy my toes and my bros and my hoes, fo sure, fo sure
Givenchy my toes and my bros and my hoes, fo sure, fo sure
Givenchy my toes and my bros and my hoes, and it is, fo sure, fo sure
Tell 'em baby would ya ride fo a nigga, babe? Would ya die fo a nigga, babe?
Baby girl, would ya cry fo yo nigga, babe? Would ya cry fo yo nigga, babe?
Aye, baby girl, what'cha know, what'cha know bout that? What'cha know bout that? Ya don't know that
Baby girl, what'cha know bout that, bout that? What'cha know bout that? You don't know nothing about that
(She don't know it she don't know it)

[Verse - Young Thug:]
Work comin' in any day or later
Eat a candy Now and Later
I ain't through baby buying acres (Rich Gang)
(Racks racks!) Almost done
Lemme put somethin inside of ya stomach, lemme put sum' right up under yo lungs
Baby I just wanna hit like Barry Bonds, I know all you wanna do is have fun
I put my heart inside yo pocket, you can break it
I told ya I love you to death, neva dissed you, not once
You my twin, girl you my twin, baby, let's stay together
You know you can neva diss me, baby, you know betta
You know I look at ya like gold, you my future trophy
She know she got my heart, she say do it, I jump like toads and
Drugs don't stop, ya know I can't stop
Baby don't press charges, she know I'm on the block
When she pull up, she can't go back she gon' stop
She ain't know what time it was 'til I bought her first clock
Rolex spend 1000 on a flock, no watch
And you know I'm comin' back like dem boyz no shop
Rollin up a Glock, take shots
I got Jays on my flava flava watch
Billibop, pull up soon and buck shots (TOP NOTCH!)
Yea they watch me like a fuckin cable box
Bitches wanna fuck me and they also on my top
Mama told me neva give tops outside the shop
Pull up on yo girl, I'm lurkin' like a cop
Pussy nigga play I'm a BEAT dem like a BOX
Hi I'm the President, baby, no black BARACK!
30's on the Chevy, my nigga, plus it's a box
Ya should know me in sharp shoes sponsored by FOX
Split that money up in eight ways like I'm an octopus
On the campus with lots of pounds kicked outta COLLEGE!
All I bleed is red but nigga, I'm not stoppin' (red light)
Pull up to the set and I come and pay all my homage
Hoppin out on Bleveland I pour up straight out the pharmacy
Pussy nigga scared, they sayin I got em hummin' and shit
Lil bitch, ya know I'm really thuggin like Bones & Harmony
(Rich Gang) I can neva be you
I'm an animal, ya know I got stamina
If a nigga ever got robbed, bitch I'm the manager
And I got an African with weed over on Campbelton
Lil momma don't go keep it stompin', I want that cameltoe
Pull up to the set with dem sticks and have us a ammo show
Clear it through the front, then I go take it out the back tho
Bags in this bitch so many bags like where da racks go?

[Hook]