I say, the bridge is over, the bridge is over, biddy-bye-bye!
The bridge is over, the bridge is over, hey, hey!
The bridge is over, the bridge is over, biddy-bye-bye!
The bridge is over, the bridge is over

Verse one:

You see me come in any dance wid de spliff of sensei
Down with the sound called bdp
If you want to join the crew well you must see me
Ya can't sound like shan or the one marley
Because shan and marley marl dem-a-rhymin like they gay
Pickin' up the mic, mon, dem don't know what to say
Sayin' that hip-hop started out in queensbridge
Sayin' lies like that, mon, you know dem can't live
So i, tell them again, me come to tell them again, gwan!
Tell them again, me come to tell them agaaain
Tell them again, me come to tell them again, gwan!
Tell them again, me come to te-ell them
Manhattan keeps on makin' it, brooklyn keeps on takin' it
Bronx keeps creatin' it, and queens keeps on fakin it

Verse two:

Di-di di-da, di di-di, dida di-day, aiy!
All you sucka MC, won't you please come out to play, cause
Here's an example of krs-one, bo!


Here's an example of krs-one
They wish to battle bdp, but they cannot
They must be on the dick of who? DJ scott larock
Cause, we don't complain nor do we play the game of favors
Boogie down productions comes in three different flavors
Pick any dick for the flavor that you savor
Mr. magic might wish to come and try to save ya
But instead of helpin ya out he wants the same thing I gave ya
I finally figured it out, magic mouth is used for suckin
Roxanne shante is only good for steady fuckin'
MC shan and marley marl is really only bluffin
Like doug e. fresh said "i tell you now, you ain't nothin"
Compared to red alert on kiss and boogie down productions
So easy now man, I me say easy now mon
To krs-one you know dem can't understand
Me movin over there and then me movin over here
This name of this routine is called live at union square
Square, square, square, ooh
What's the matter with your MC, marley marl?
Don't know you know that he's out of touch
What's the matter with your DJ, MC shan?
On the wheels of steel marlon sucks
You'd better change what comes out your speaker
You're better off talkin' bout your wack puma sneaker
Cause bronx created hip-hop, queens will only get dropped
You're still tellin' lies to me
Everybody's talkin' 'bout the juice crew funny
But you're still tellin' lies to me