(Kon Artis - Chorus)
Now out of all the women in the place ooh
You got me starin' at your pretty face.ooh
And with that body I could truly say that ooh
U r the one, u r the one, u r the one, ooh ooh.
Amazed by the way that you shake them hips ooh,
Shakin' your ass off on my dick ooh
I get aroused by them sexy lips cause ooh
U r the one, u r the one, u r the one that can dooo

(Swift)
And you wonder why I call you everyday of the week,
And have that operator breakin' on your line when you speak.
And I can say that I'ma make you mine in a blink.
You nominated just for your behind and I'm game,
You a thug with your best of friend, mud-wrestlin'.
Sittin' in the corner with a mug and a cup of gin.
See me lookin' for you when you win in a pen,
See I hug you dirty. You confronting me for flirtin'?
You wanted me so suddenly, my company's a burden,
But I won't jump a balcony, and how can I be hurtin'.
I'm just playin' wit you and it's workin'.
Your friend's can't save you, they fakin' like they nurses.

(Bizarre)
First time I saw you, up in them guests,
You the only reason I use Federal Express.
Shit, I don't be havin' no packages. Naw,
I'm getting dressers, lamps, and big matresses.
I go crazy when I smell your odor.
I just want to pick you up, and take you to Pan-De-Rosa.
Steak and potatoes, whatever you want.
I'll register the buffet, my publics cheques then come.
You don't care about D12, you don't know about Bizarre.
All you know that I'm weird and I wear a wonder-bra.
That's fine, I just wanna make you mine.
Niggas say you a 3, I think you a dime.

(Proof)
I love the way yo' body grindin', gettin' all in my face
Only thing on your mind is which wallet to raid
Your ass looks so perfect with your thong on your waist
Built like a stallion, you belong in a race
Get money by the barrel, King Kong in the place
Movie and a dinner, that's as long as I wait
Hey, I ain't on your ear off, talkin' dates
Got you dizzy off D-twizzy, you ain't walkin' straight
Got a roomy, bring your booty, and lets cultivate.
You so pretty, love them titties, they soft and fake.
Bring your friends, "Damn your skin smell like coffeecake."
Yo meet me at the place when you get off at eight.

(Kuniva)
The way you move have got me buggin' out.
And you quick to take off your jacket and slug it out,
We thug it out. Pourin' 40's out and give each other death. In fact,
We both hate goin' out, we both hate small gats.
You the truth I'm for real yo I love you to death.
And if we break up, I'ma stalk you and bug you to death.
Till you scared to leave the house because you know I'm in the bushes.
We went from hugs and kisses into shoves and pushes.
Tis all love, take it and stride, I'm only jokin' wit you.
I don't get down like that, you know I'd never hit you.
But yet and still if I ever feel I'm about to,
I'll gently grab the shoulders and shake the shit out ya girl!

(Kon Artis)
I take a light skinned, dark skinned, short and black,
Attitude sassy and they ass is fat.
Corporate suburb when you could be a classy rat.
Louis Votton cost to much to have a bag to match.
Girl forget all that, I'm gettin' rich off rap,
And you could be my aid in all as long as you got my back.
Seditary, there's entrepreneurs, and that's a fact.
And your birthday's seven days after mine, correct?
Well that's two things that we got in common, baby.
Hope there ain't a problem that I'm involved in Shady.
Cause come next year, I will not be datin',
Cause my plan's to be with your stinkin' ass OK?