Erykah Badu:
When she wants plenty, she gets plenty
When she wants plenty, she gets plenty
When she wants plenty, she gets plenty
Then she gets plenty more, uh

When she wants plenty, she gets plenty
When she wants plenty, she gets plenty
When she wants plenty, she gets plenty
Then she gets plenty more, uh

Guru:
Uh
Watchin her drivin' by, in her new whip so fly
Wish she could sing me a lullaby, to scoop her I've got to try
In her eyes, there's a flame that burns right through my soul
Can't pretend to be cool, about to lose my control
Yeah I know she's got plenty; admirers, she's got many
Like an exotic fantasy, into a frenzy she sends me
Wow I have to sit down, and gather my wits now
I wanna caress those hips now, wanna kiss those lips now

Erykah Badu:
Hello? Hey baby
I know you called and I didn't answer twice
But baby that's oh-kay it's nice
For you to call anyway see, okay, see uh
Hey baby
You know it's okay if you don't call me
Anymore 'cause I got a-plenty
Truckload of niggaz like you at my door

When she wants plenty, she gets plenty
When she wants plenty, she gets plenty
When she wants plenty, she gets plenty
Then she gets plenty more, uh

Guru:
Yup
And every day is her day, and every year is her year
Anyone tried to violate, they could straight disappear
She don't care if you play yourself, tryin' to step to her
The illest of gangsters, I show and respect to her
Truly glamorous, she ain't impressed and it shows
She don't like your new clothes, she don't care about your playa pose
Do you suppose I could hook up and spend time with her?
She's just how I dreamed - I'll bust my nine for her

Erykah Badu:
When she gets plenty, she gets plenty
When she gets plenty, she gets plenty
When she wants plenty, she gets plenty
Any damn thang she wants, uh

Guru:
Uh
Surgeon General - I provide vitamins and minerals
The charge that she's got on me, should be federal
I was told never put the two before the one son
But always cultivate your Wisdom, to help you build your kingdom
I wanna be the answer to every question she has
So when I wish to enter, she'll be lettin me pass
I know she wants to be with G-O-D eventually, but still
She got everything; yeah the girl's got plenty

Erykah Badu:
Flowers in her bedroom
Perfume on her neck
Nectar from a mason jar
Seven dollar dress; she's
Super cute, and plenty bad
Thirty twenty-two thirty-six and a half
I, hope the dude will realize
She got the silky sexy bedroom eyes
Baby baby please don't break yo' neck
Cause you gon' have a wreck
'Cause when it comes to love I get plenty, degrees one-twenty
My back slipped out my dress - oops!

When she gets plenty, she gets plenty (she gets it all)
When she wants plenty, she gets plenty (uh)
When she wants plenty, she gets plenty (c'mon)
And she gets plenty more (plenty more) ah

When she wants plenty, she gets plenty
When she wants plenty, she gets plenty (mm, she gets it all)
When she wants plenty, she gets plenty
And any damn thang I want - right? (That's right)

(In this game of life it takes a lot to win
Plenty more baby's what I got to give)
Yeah yeah baby that's really nice
But I'm tryin' to read my book and you're in my light
(Uh - a woman like you could help me reach the top
If I get a chance to love you, mm, I won't stop)
Damn! Oh huh, what? Huh, whaaat?
I didn't hear you I was thinkin' bout some stuff
(Baby you so fine I wanna smack myself
I don't need no support I'm gonna back myself)
Hoo baby you so sweet
Now can you get the lotion and rub my feets
(In massage therapy I got a master degree
I give you plenty more, than what you askin from me)
I need a little bit of space, a little bit of wealth (okay)
And oh - about the feets, a little to the left (like this?)
Mmmmmm (m'hmm, like that?)
Yeah (feels good right?)
Oh
Ah (yeah, heh heh)
Hehehee! (You don't really care)
I do! (Heh, you the Queen huh?)
More lotion! (C'mon... you got plenty!)

That's good! All right? (That's good right?)