Once again it's on, the Nigga you love to hate
Ice Cube's in the motherfucking house
Yo I wanna say what's up to the niggas from the Lench Mob
J.D., T-Bone, Shorty, Del, yo
Sir Jinx, Chill, Dazzie Dee, and K Dee, yo
And the rest of the Mobs in the house
(Yeah, herd 'em up)
I wanna say what's happening to my man, Afrika Bambaataa
And the mighty Zulu Nation
I gotta give a shout out to the Public Enemy
Y'all motherfuckers in the house
And the niggas that's handelin' business, EPMD
Yo I wanna say what's up to Uncle L, LL Cool J
The Nigga from Exclaim
I gotta say what's up to Digital Underground and humpty hump
'Cause he makin' more than Donald Trump, you know what I'm sayin'?
I gotta say what's up to the niggas that's payin' dues, Low Profile
(W.C.'s in the house)
And that big ballin' ass nigga named King T
DJ Pooh, and the niggas that's droppin' bombs on your ass
The motherfuckin' Bomb Squad
(Eric Sadler...)
I gotta say what's up to Big Daddy Kane
And the Rhyme, the Rhyme syndicate
And to the niggas that can slang them dolls, King Sun
I gotta say what's happenin' to my girl Yo Yo
She's stompin' to the motherfuckin' 90s
And the I.B.W.C.
My man Mac, and to the Mackaframalama motherfuckers
Don't laugh hos, I'm down with the afros

I wanna say what's happenin' to the trigger-happy, motherfuckin' Geto Boys
RUN DMC and Jam Mastery Jay
Stetsasonic and one time gaffle 'em up C.M.W.
I gotta say what's happenin' to my west coast homeboy
Ice-Motherfuckin'-T
And my man from O-town, Too $hort's in the motherfuckin' house
My man from the East coast, Busy Bee
The Nigga from my block,
King Ronny Ron, D-Dougs, and my man Stretch
And you know that street knowledge is givin' the punch
I gotta say what's happenin' to my manager
Pay sharp and May, and you know she don't play
And my nigga, the only nigga [Who's that?]
Sir Jinx in the motherfuckin' house
And to all the motherfuckers I forgot,
Y'all ain't did shit anyway!
This is dedicated to the niggas that's been down since day one
Ice Cube in the motherfuckin' house
Comin' at your ass with a gangsta lean
Fall of 1990 style, you know what I'm sayin'?
(We outta here...)
Five thousand G
{Phone}
Yo, Ice Cube man. Since you went solo, what's up with the rest of the..?
(Abrupt end)
{Operator}
If you need help, hang up and dial your operator.