Dice are rolling, the knives are out
With the present danger all around
I don't say they mean harm
But they'd each give an arm
To see us six feet underground

The lord is calling me
My demons haunt me this really tortures me
'Cause they don't understand me. And while I'm
Holdin' up I know you smilin' down
At all my enemies who wanna see me
(Six feet underground)

Look at me know, hittin them up holdin' them down,
'Cause I'm destined to be, I know you love to see me
(Six feet underground).
Why, see through the devils eyes, you vision my demise,
So may your soul lie
(Six feet underground).
Never before did I believe that I could fly mo, just getting high,
My niggas just getting by.
If you can't see we binzes y'all jags we rollies y'all tags,
We diamonds y'all glass, we can pussy y'all ass.
Gimme love, we be wearin guns tighter than gloves,
With special 38 snubs, so we don't end up
(Six feet underground).
The pressure hittin em, the rule will still get rid of them,
For those who feel they getting away, Ja be sendin them
(Six feet underground).
I feel I've cursed my body, and soul I've been outta control,
Ever since I fell in the zone.
And want nuttin more than to see my niggas eat with me,
But my enemies want nuttin more than to see me
(Six feet underground).

I'm so ignorant, 'cause I done bled my last tears,
And pain is bliss, been through so many things.
Its hard to assist, a mind that's currently thinkin' on its
Last wish, its nothin' to fuck with.
When I, know what I'm up against you must think I'm a fool,
Claimin you love what I do, then be down playin' the rule.
Bad move, more cars, more hoes, more jewels,
And I love nuttin more than to see you
(Six feet underground).
Doesnt matter how we, gonna get at 'em while we,
Gonna get at em,
And don't know 'em from adam but we sure gone send em.
Love 'em or leave em, niggas created a demon,
Let it open so I won't be goin'
(Six feet underground).
Because I feel I've cursed my body, and soul
I've been outta control, ever since I fell in the zone.
And want nuttin more than to see my niggas eat with me,
But my enemies want nuttin more than to see me
(Six feet underground).

Get up, get up, get up, get up baby the rule can't die tonight,
Now all my niggas is y'all wit me?! Yeaheeyeah,
And all my bitches is y'all wit me?! Yeaheeyeah,
Just thought I'd warn you, that I ain't livin' right,
Niggas might see my life, as sort of a sacrifice,
Money, bitches and ice, but fuck it. Roll, roll wit sumthin,
Let me sip sumthin. Ride 1-2-5 in a low-low frontin,
In 3 wheel motion, you know I'm high, flickin ashes at police while ridin' by.
I'm ghetto I don't fear it's deeper than love,
If you wanna get it, then come on nigga get it in blood,
Because I'm feel I've cursed my body, and soul
I' ve been outta control, ever since I fell in a zone.
And want nuttin more than to see my niggas eat with me,
But my enemies want nuttin more than to see me
(Six feet underground).

Yeah its Murda Inc. baby say what you want baby
Ain't none of this 'cause ya niggas ain't crazy
Its Ja Rule, Irv Gotti, Blackchild, Tah Murdah,
01, Maricon??, Vita, is MURDA!
See us (six feet underground)
Chris Gotti

(It doesn't matter what those morons say)