- When you over in American Samoa, what... what surprised you the most?
- I guess what hit me the most is the condition of the factory that the workers were in:
The factory was surrounded by a fence and barbed wire on top and on the bottom. And they have a chain-linked fence surround the whole factory and, and dormitory compound. The gate has a... has a guard shack, where the guard sit there and control the worker movement in and out of the... of the factory
- The factory are made of ahm... tin panels with tin roof. It's really hot. The temperature over there is regularly ninety degrees and inside the factory or the dormitory it reaches way over a hundred degrees.

Yeah
It's the contemporary form of slavery, they call it slave labor
But they don't prosecute them 'cause it's how they make paper
When you rocking that fly shit that's made in China
By an eight year old child tryna feed his mama
He exposed to contamination and disease
And only fifty-five percent of them will get degrees
And the women have to try to placate the boss
Because it's sex discrimination in the labor force
The slave master only let them speak in sign language
And they're suffering from lung disease and eye damage
Fourteen hour shifts, seven days a week
Two shitty meals a day, very little sleep
Human life only worth three cents an hour
All human right laws loose sense of power
What did four hundred years in the grave passes?
Only the improved cleverness of slave masters.

Is life worth living if you living in hell?
When the mind is confined to a prisoner's cell?
And the lies they devise in the system that fail
But I expect the system to fail!
Is life worth living if you living in hell?
When the mind is confined to a prisoner's cell?
And the lies they devise in the system that fail
But I expect the system to fail!

- Many Chinese workers are forced to sign secret agreements, known as shadow contracts, before they leave China, severely and, in some ways, illegally restricting their activities while on American soil. Workers are forbidden to participate in any religious or political activity or to ask for a salary increase or even to fall in love or get married.

It's one point six million people locked in jail
They do new slave labour force trapped in hell
They generate over a billion dollars worth to power
And only getting paid twenty cents an hour
They make cloths for McDonald's and for Apple Bee's
And working fourteen hour shifts in prison factories
And while we sit around debating who the wack emcee is
They have to work when arthritic pain attack the knees
Slavery is not illegal, that's a fucking lie!
It is illegal, unless it's for conviction of a crime
The main objective is to get you in your fucking prime.
And keep the prison full and not give you a fucking dime
But they the real criminal keeping you confined
For a petty crime but they give you two-to-nine
And ain't nobody there to protect ya
Except a bunch of incompetent human rights inspectors

Is life worth living if you living in hell?
When the mind is confined to a prisoner's cell?
And the lies they devise in the system that fail
But I expect the system to fail!
Is life worth living if you living in hell?
When the mind is confined to a prisoner's cell?
And the lies they devise in the system that fail
But I expect the system to fail!

- The sweatshop situation's kind of cohesive and kind of take advantage on the people that are poor and at an economic disadvantage.
- This Chinese woman made T-shirts and pants at the factory until she became pregnant.
- When I told them I was pregnant, they told me to have an abortion...
- Tu Xiao Mei says she refused to have the abortion and has now been barred from entering the factory.
- To allow them to bring that on to US soil is a very deep concern. We've now documented the facts that management coerces female workers who become pregnant into having abortions.
- But human rights workers say it's common practice
- Inside that factory Chinese law applies, and Chinese law is... is supreme
- Even though it's the United States of America?
- The flag doesn't fly inside there.