[Round 1: Loaded Lux]
Power to the people, we back to do maintenance
Yeah, yeah, we gon' rock like crack when it came in
You know, this work hard as the Latin invasion
For black entertainers
Hollow! Glad you could make it… it’s just sad he won’t make it
At these tapings, they don’t even show the show dancers
Turn pro trans to respect to the session bein' close-camera'd
Look at this, another future know-it-all with no answers
Past catches up to him present day — look, nana!
We got another kid with a gift just found out that there’s no Santa
Afraid they never calculate the mistake they about to make
Any time you get gassed up to get traffic
Well, it’s obvious you gon' brake, nigga
I’m talkin' to a dead man at his wake
This is a interview with a vampire, you don’t know that high stakes
Will take his life out of place, I eradicate, then create
But the gun makers the mind that combine that we brung tanks
I don’t know what they must think
I’m out of verses or the hearse is out of trunk space
But you a petty drug case, cupcake
This ain't front like you front weight
I hate niggas who pump fake
And you've been givin' shots, you gon' play drunk date
Blind and find that there’s some states that's unsafe
They have holes in defenses to jump the gate
What could you do?
I'd have thought your retorts or your rebuttals through
Data for this match-up you probably was runnin' to
It just, it just ain't the same backup when it’s in front of you
(Forget it, I got a tonload for him!)
You know what I come and do, you know who they came to see
You books you're a showman
It’s not as much about my opponent as the look I’ma go with
Soldiers, for the glory, who do we put in our moments?
Well, it’s a fight in the ring
I can’t picture the Don king, but he good for promotion
I wanna put it in motion, put it in motion
I like aggravation on faces attracted to bein' famous
This is an art, I give you a start in imagination
Then I pick you apart like a talent agent
Clarification: my character basin' was the fall of Calicoe's greatness
"But Lux, you was wrong for puttin' the pictures up!"
Shit, he was wrong for takin' it
I take it you see my last flick, classic
Yours? Wasn't too dazzlin'
You waved, then got wiped out, brother
Surfin' just never looked worse with you in the castin'
I was all in the entertainin' center
This nigga mama name must be Brenda with this trash shit
You look like a nigga in front of the deli that keep askin'
They gave it to you the first two times — oh, this a habit?
We know your story, we seen the views
A million and one times, it’s the same action
Hollow, you keep givin' us old shit
But what else we expect to get out the addict?
You baggage, lot of trouble in the vein
I heard you and Drake was tight
Turns out you’re munchin' off the name
Pictures of y'all at dinner, he showed the public that he came
Well, he put it in his albums too
He said: "Thank me later, take care," then nothin' was the same!
I expose you niggas in rap collisions
Loyalty Over Money? That’s suspicious
Wasn't it just NYB to the death? Last edition
Oh, the numbers just keep disappearin': this Math magician
Has befriended everything about New York
The Texas slang, the drinkin' lean
The swangin' on a mutherfuckin' train
Yeah, the fastest way is the A, it’s a level in which I usually train
You in the grave 'cause the payin'
And removin' the stain through the exchange
I square off for every root in your frame
Why else would a king be pawn shoppin'? This for human remains
New York versus New York
Oh baby, this home cookin' lookin' like grandma's
I keep tellin' you Hollow fans
To stop thinkin' a Hiro ain't just a sandwich
You gotta talk to 'em like they daddy’s little girls
What you want with this nigga that keep goin' back to jail?
Did that time behind enemy lines make the family proud?
Did […] pal your man ain't got it
You hand-washin' a niggas hand-me-downs?
Another top tier nigga tearin' on the top tier
When they tearin' your bottom out like nana gown
But you lightnin' with the jab, but the footage can’t be found
You stole who, cupcake?
You ain't gonna take nothin' but your panties down
You no different from a maid dryin' the laundry
And this guy locked and confined
I mean, you was just hangin' out in the yard
Now your spot's on the line, nigga
Alright, hold on, I’ll mourn him
Yeah, 12 told me get on that track and exploit him
I was runnin' around the battle scene, lookin' for freezer storage
Yeah, I called you out, keep ignorin'
That’s why you ain't even see this comin'
Actin' like you ain't see me callin', nigga
Are you a left winger or a set banger?
Excuse me, don’t confuse me, your new gear dirty, nigga
You couldn't clean up round a pack of Mexican painters
Your closet for Kanye would be a death chamber
You wouldn't know fly shit in a jet hangar

[Round 1: Hollow Da Don]
I feel you on your Black Panther shit
The power is engaged, but you a diva nigga
Made them wait to take an hour to hit the stage
I said damn, takin' all that time you done hurt these fans
I guess it took a while to put on that Hell's Angels jacket
And them Eddie Murphy pants
Since he wants to take so long
Fuck it, I’ma do his original introduction
First Smack back— wait! We on UW 'cause I stabbed Smack's back
Loaded Lux, you know what’s up when we rollin' up
Yeah, we know what’s up, you coked up
Aces click, fastest way to Harlem is the A train, slick
Well, it’s actually the FDR
But you wouldn’t know, 'cause you don’t have a car
But he does have a hearse
Against Calicoe you set the scene
You brought props and everything from that picture
You scored 'cause you got the pic when Smack set the screen
I mean, just to see a Lux battle
You gotta see women in violet gowns
Choir sounds, tire mounts, tightrope and lion growls
It’s a whole buncha “you gon get this work” and quiet downs
It’s a circus act just to see this clown go through a fire round
Was all that rented stuff?
You still got the hearse? You kept the tux?
Oooh, great investment, Lux!
Your death is up, neck get cut, stretch his guts, chest get—
Hold up, hold up, I can’t do this, he a Black Panther
I gotta be positive with Lux, I’ma battle the same
Nah, fuck Lux, I’m only concerned with the first half of his name: Loaded 5th, let’s get it in; over offensive lines
My niggas got they face masks at your residence
I got the goons waitin' on the outside like a defensive end
And I call them my special team
'Cause while y'all kickin' it I send 'em in
I'll send this nigga to Hell
Bring him back to life, send his ass to Hell again
Or like you repentin' sins, I have him heaven-sent
Them your choices, you can try Hell, or let they sky tell
It's two ways I can send him messages
Let’s say he pick message two, and dude, you right there?
Grab the pipe, blast it twice, tragic sight
Lux dies… I’ll fuckin', I’ll fuckin'… grab a knife, slash and slice
My own wrists just to battle him in the afterlife
I’ll be like, "Yeah, who the best nigga here? I wanna battle Christ."
Tell Stack he nice, and give DJ Screw a half a pint
I’ll bring the footage back down to Earth
So y'all fans can see him severed
And they watchin' like, "Damn! That was a match made in Heaven!"
I’ll come to a shrine, guzzlin' wine, jugglin' mines
I’m so far ahead and above with my time
I can rebuttal your rhyme before you come up with the line
I said, let me introduce you to this cat you facin'
A mixture of Larry Davis and Pappy Mason
A nigga who will battle half the nation, with scars and lacerations
That’s why the line outside longer than the African vaccination
Now my next style's like a reptile from The X-Files
Have your legs bound, then found in the west now
Kick your crib down, my niggas play Peyton with his kid now
They toss him to me, I catch him and slam him: Shawn Kemp style!
I hate you, Lux! I hate you, Lux!
I hope your true love grow up to be a fruit cup
Or a nigga that’s screwed up, shoot his whole school up
Peep how I’m puttin' the scheme
C'mon, my nigga… LOOK AT ME, KING!!!
You see that large picture? Somethin' that I got, King
Loaded Lux, Loaded what? Loaded Lux, Loaded what?
Loaded Lux — how you got the name Loaded Lux?
Not 4's you clutch, unloaded and loadin' up
It was UPS, loading trucks
You better be super loadin' them up
'Cause if Loaded overloaded he wouldn't be loaded enough
I mean, I was good with Goodz, I surfed with Surf
And now I’m loaded for Loaded
I hold it for Loaded, I load it for Loaded, I open and close it
Loaded Lux, let’s talk about chokin', Lux
They said Lux choked, I said: "Lux choked, oh yes!"
They said the second and third was crazy
I was like, "Damn! I thought you meant he choked to death!"
But let the fans tell it, some of 'em say he’s perfect
He choked on purpose
He can craft rhymes out the air and he don’t rehearse it
He can disable a bomb and he won’t get nervous — he’s perfect!
He can bury a meteor and it won’t resurface — he’s perfect!
But legends don’t choke on purpose
I mean, picture John Elway on his last drive
Within the goal line in his 4th in 5
The blitz come, he scrambles and get in around it
Sees the wide receiver open, then intentionally grounds it
Legends don’t choke: picture Jordan game 6, 4th quarter
And him passin' it to Ron Harper… legends don’t choke
My nigga, what was the obstacle there?
You couldn’t find nothin' to rhyme with hospital bed?
I mean, not pop with the lead
Shot in the head, drop 'til you dead
You like to talk about Calicoe's pops and the feds
Even that rhymes with hospital bed
Why you didn’t just freestyle off the top—

[Round 2: Loaded Lux]
Just when we thought Hollows had points to their rounds
You're brickin' with your shot
You gotta be fuckin' kiddin' me
I do this whole movie production bit
The signs, the divines, the pickets and the props
And this is what you got?
Oh, you in grave danger, I know you can dig it
Shit, we’ll pick out the box
Look, I could care less if you audition or not
I wrote this story for you, I gotta stick you in the plot
But you gon' love it, the script is hot
I tell your mother: look, lady
I know crack was rough out there in the 80's
But don’t be depressed about your best
I mean, these young heffers out here still droppin' they babies
But you raised them with an agenda
And revelations is scripture; just goin' to take a few more of your funerals breakin' until they remember
All that static on the set
That’s the same wire hangin' for the antenna
And why it always take a black mother bangin' on the box
For you niggas to get the picture?
As far as the past, leave it to Lux
Harlem been on the map, but I’m back leadin' the rush
You from a borough where LL was the battle MC to crush
As if Nasty wasn’t enough
Could you be the one Run DMC let they last Adidas to run up if the ave needed a crutch? You a sad scene in the clutch
RuPaul couldn't drag Queens this much
I see them on Jamaica Ave
I’m movin' like a coroner with this body of work without the tag
He bop and pass, shoppin' bags — what’s up, son?
I’m like, "This new shit if you got the cash."
Now, see you, baby boy, I lie to y'all not
It was the same scene in Baby Boy
Where Jody asked P: "Are you a buyer or a seller?"
He didn’t even have the rest of the money
For the bail bondsman to buy you out the cellar
That should tell ya: you buy, we sell
Whose hands the weakest dealt?
In the end you got the bags, but I got the cash
Don’t cheat yourself, the streets is swell
You know that when you signed and you CD shelved
You need the help, I go from the trunk like a Keebler elf
Ask your man Grime about me
I know your hustle, your origin; that’s partly why I believe your partnership got your partner shipped
You came down when he went up, it’s not bargainin'
It’s like sponsorin', free trade been the game
Since First 48 Hours got marketin'
Targetin' crews that who lack honor and staff arguments
Is L.O.M. in the trap partyin' or in the rap partisan?
Y'all shoulda been had an audience
On noggin with all Barney friends
I mean, all you niggas sing, you might look like monsters on screen, but you’re Backyardigans
Why the point man always tryna get it on the arm?
Food stamps come, you gotta babysit the card
You don’t even help out with that rent up in the Bronx
That’s you L.O.M. niggas: Living Off of Moms
You smoked yourself out of the last house that you was sleep
It’s such a disaster what that cannabis do
When your whole pad out in the street
It’s sad watchin' this
If you doin' this you’re down to whatever your last option is
You can’t match snatch opposite rap operators
The man butter, his whole band rubber, snap out of it
Ars, what you got to give? I need 40, shorty
You can’t negotiate the big brother with black hostages
This don’t make good sense
Why your voice be climbin' like you’re whinin'?
Changin' pitch like the Yankees bench, ain't this a bitch?
Came to vent at the main event
Next time you rap about my age
You tell them who the most talked about battle rapper of this age
The guy that do the autopsies on the stage
I get to breakin' down a rapper
I bet you ain't have a book since Spades
But I’m readin' you, nigga, right before I’m takin' out the chapters
You actors ain't seen a star brighter
Car lighters don’t go in like this heart fighter
Punch for punch I ain't never shown a weak hand, but I off writers
You wish it was more like us, both of our names public
But mines is the main hoverin'
All that means is you got bars too, just not the hang of it
You ain't discovered
When I give a nigga this work it ain't Ma$e returnin'
Your fate determine no Queens block will be safe to turn in
Bourbon make you virgin, I’m focused you with the surgeon
My next EP MD: check the sermon
You gon get this work 'til you fired, in a furnace
Calicoe got a casket for free; you gonna earn it, nigga
You with the Madison Square Gardener
I rakes up the scratch and then leaves
Dear father, tell baby Duress she ain't safe on the street of Tonkas
Hollow the Primadonna, you're brakes on a beat-up Honda
Greezy partners, stretchin' pies, spendin' dough
Nigga, you got a job at a pizza parlor
Even smarter they say you was AAU, jump it and dunk it

[Round 2: Hollow Da Don]
Nigga, I was raised in AQ, nigga, that’s Queens
You said my band rubber
Damn, brother, what does that mean?
So you call niggas "rubber"? Oh, that nigga rubber
That nigga soft — see, I don’t get this shit
Niggas be actin' like Lux on some different shit
But all he do is take some simple shit
Like a door and make it intricate
They’re opposed to who’s opposin' us
Do you want it closed or shut?
The life of sanctuary is close enough
And when it’s your turn, things will open up
I seen more counter tops than a flower pot
An hour clock on the tower watch — and the crowd will rock
Like, "Woo! I don’t know, it just sounded hot."
Because you don’t understand him it don’t mean that he nice
For example, he said it’s about 50cc of Vicodin in his writing pen
But Vicodin’s a pill and CCs liquid… what are you writin' then?
Because you don’t understand him, it don’t mean that he’s nice
I mean, my bars give you that "mmm, I just shitted" face
His bars give you that "hmm, I think I get it" face
I mean, you wanna know why Lux is so deep?
He tell his boys, "I can’t comfortably sleep
I don’t want to be stuck in fatigue
I need supplements meek, like my digestive system functioning least," and they’re like "Huh?!"
He’s like: “I’m tryin' to get somethin' to eat!”
'Cause you don’t understand him it don’t mean that he’s nice
You know the reason why I don’t respect your flow?
'Cause last battle you had the swag of that muslim
That was in the cypher with X and Hov
I mean, can’t you see that he’s fake?
He came dressed like T. D. Jakes
'Cause he can’t sell any of his CD's and tapes
But when he battle raps, people zone out, sit and stare
In a mist of air as he paints that picture clear
And takes you to that place… that isn’t there
I mean, wanna be like Lux? Here’s some options
You smart work like synopsis [?]
Analyze an object or dance around the topic
I mean, I made up stuff before
And I apologize and I’m makin' amends
And I promise y'all, I will never put an intercom in a generator again!
But if he was to do that, they would make it make sense
It’s Lux! You don’t get what he’s sayin', dummy?
He’s talkin' about the battle
He enter calm so he can generate some money
Lux got bars — see, but I don’t get this shit
'Cause nigga like that act like Lux be on some different shit
But all you do is take some simple shit and make it intricate
And the ones that’s diggin' it
Look at him like, “You can’t be serious!”
To the ones that ain't feelin' it
Act like they silliness and belligerent
But when they go home and break down these bars I’m mentionin'
For followin' you, they the fuckin' idiots!
Example: what you gonna do? Put it all in my catcher's mitt?
I mean, is this baseball? Are we playin' catch and shit?
Oh, I guess it went way over our heads and we ain't catch the shit
Wait, y'all ain't catch this shit
I said he act like we playin' baseball
And it went way over our heads and we ain't catch the shit
Well, if he is makin' sense and shit
Only problem I got left with him
Is slow down your sentences, don’t forget and remember it
And add a round off your penmanship
Wait! I can’t say this to Lux!
The god, the legend, the veteran ain't nobody better than
Oh, you might need some notes to take home
I wrote some, I’m gonna give you a letter then
Dear Lux, we fuck with your energy
But the way you cram your bars
For some fans it’s frustratin' mentally
Slow down, it ain't all about the punchin' your memory
I mean, we like the way you structure your similes
But sometimes you run through them literally
We fuck with your energy, but we question abilities
Oh, what I’m tryin' to tell you, P.S. don’t rush your delivery
Against Miles he was the champ
We couldn’t shoo him, he was in his prime
But now that we don’t get his rhymes
We just keep kick side of him when he finish lines
Right before he begin his line
Loaded! It’s like I swallowed a laxative on accident
I got them shittin' in they pants again
Oh crap, it’s him, Loaded! Forty thousands not enough to get a kilo, just a sniff, not for traffickin'
Couple thousand left over, I guess I get me a casket then
After that it’s back to the ave again
Layin' down blankets with the Africans
Oh, y'all didn’t know? He said I stay at Mom's house
But prior to Summer Madness 2
He was homeless, so he had to do what he had to do
Niggas that been on Fortune or Jamaica Ave, y'all know this true
Y'all done had him sell some things to you
You don't want the Lionz Den CD? Cool
We got Jeezy and Weezy too
It’s usually five, Beloved, but three for you
Hold up, don’t stop my sale, Beloved
It’s usually five, Beloved, but three for you
Alright, alright, times is hard, bring me two

[Round 3: Loaded Lux]
I hope you brought that pain medicine with you
'Cause you gon' need it
How sweet breathin' can be screened
Door breezes when romanced
Well, the Romans when they beat on Jesus is in yo' hands
But nothin' I write can hit you harder than life
Especially one weak for demons
But you say you straight in the state of the saints
We gon' see if it’s new or leanin'
Promethazine, codeine, morphine, it doesn’t motivate
The exposure makes you doze, not awake, these are opiates
The doses traits of the properties
Of the poppy seed that the dopers take
Make no mistake about this: if you ever been around someone on heroin, they’re a dependant
They go from bingin' to druggin' just to function that engine
The whole body readjust and you just can’t end it
They attack the habit, but the cause of withdrawals is still pendin'
So are you sober, nigga?
'Cause you said you stopped drinkin' lean in October
Well, that isn't a surprise, Hollow
You picked the month wherein the end every individual lies
I mean, you can dress it up how you picture it in your mind
But 'til Hollow wean off it he gon' always be a nigga in disguise
How fly is the Moon Man that went to the bottom?
Ever since you first spaced out in Houston he had a problem
We listen and bear witness
"You already snoo dat"—in your system, nigga!
"Hollow the dininininin— my prediction?
That repetition in your diction due to addiction
From sippin', your mind slippin'
It's like your life written, scripted, but seem cryptic
You driftin' off in the mist of the mission until it's missin'
Oh, the sorrow? I came to clean young blood out: sorrel
This ain't even a quarrel, nigga
This like Quarry versus Ali when the right follow
Your sights boggle, your time borrowed
Your life shoulda been swallowed
Hollow's Apollo, the light model who fights Drago
You might wallow into depression
Dresser full of empty Sprite bottles
I’ll never forget that night
When I seen you on 174th Street and Vice
It was at Gunz video shoot
You had that cup in your hand, and you was nice
And I asked to battle you
And out of all the avenues we coulda been on, it was Vice
Wow! The brain disease you can’t seem to knock out
And ironically I thought I never blocked out
That was God with me when you said follow me
Into that pharmacy — you get the picture?
The good farmer sees what need to be cropped out
You a bad weed, and this a travesty; and this one casualty
Is gonna be for every one of your multiple personalities
Are you the Don Dotti? The D-D-D-Don Duttar Man?
The Dininini— nigga, it's all dimmin'
But let me ask you this: did you mean Don Lennon or Don Lemon?
After the CNN journalist who don't even enjoy women
But boys in 'em, speed stickin' by Mennen Bennett
I think like him as a brother who's in a public figure
I figure in it to restore ignorance
I hate you lost niggas, y'all off-switches
They don’t put us on to the system, I assist 'em
I tell him where it is and where this gets him
How the game rigged, your name makes you look big
But you a victim, that’s why they pimp him
I just see what you don’t see, Hollow, I’m statin' the facts
I made you the most money you ever been gave for a match
But don’t even thank me for that
I just wanna know why, when every leader rise
They use his own kind to put the stake in his back
What they paid you at Smack, nigga?
They probably paid you in smack
'Cause you can’t even see fast your last drank of that batch
But you paint me as wack?
You make the fans see me as greedy, as if I broke some treaty because I don’t let 'em treat me like a 'don'
Who's in the position to influence
For the student, but educatin' him wrong
Baby, you a star, they love you the way you are
But I love you enough to not leave you the way you are
You make it hard for people that say what they mean
And mean what they say 'cause that what they mean
How they gon' follow a junkie? Be a fan, not a fiend!
And you, be a nigga from Queens, not a queen!
Man up, 'cause stand-up niggas don’t lean!
This is revolution
Not some shit you put on a song to sound cute with
A wise man once told me, "Son, you want respect, huh?
Well, you make money, not excuses."
I'm through with work
I'm up here givin' Hollow the business model
I’m showin' the battle rapper today how to get it tomorrow
You welfare, nigga, free healthcare
You give it to him, but don’t show him how you got it
How you gon' teach business with free shit?
Where’s the knowledge? But why should we expect a nigga named Hollow to give us anything solid?
I’m polished, a freedom leader
But we will leave us and weak achievers [?]
I’m a contracted speaker, an avid reader
I stand on these lines, not for athletes sneakers neither
FBI been trappin' keepers of light since trapper-keepers
You might've thought Hoover was just a vacuum cleaner
Yeah, all right, master thinker
These Don Lemons be twistin' up y'all agenda
That’s why I wore this image, so you don’t forget to remember
Why the members of the Panthers tried
Why Bobby Hutton and the Fred Hampton died
They can’t deny, the answers lie
Right there in history, stamped in time
You, you're the cancer that propaganda designed
It’s sad, 'cause some minds you can’t remind
It’s bad, you blind to the rubbish due to the druggin'
They sat you down, gave you time to think
Prison-confined bunked him
'Cause you won’t take more money from rap
But you’ll stand on the block with a pack, you disgustin'
Who they trustin'?
I got to be the guy you wasn't for the youngin
To show him somethin', 'cause if you look up to a Hollow
You just gon' grow up and do nothin'
You should be banned from a booth
Unless you’re surrounded by a firin' squad commanded to shoot
I got plans for the youth, you tryin' to lean on me?
This is principal Clark battlin' Sams on the roof
Jump, nigga! Kill yourself!
All night I been givin' you mad questions
But they can’t mix problems with bad guesses
Hollow, you ain't loaded enough for the rap legend
You up here talkin' all this Big Daddy Kane shit
And you half-steppin', nigga, my walk's clearer
It’s like I’m thought-sharin'
On the frequencies that the dog hearin'
I’m more darin' than McFadden runnin' back with the ball bearin'
And the wheel, and you're caught starin'
I should split your shit like divorced parents
You know what? Forget the money, forget that money
Shit, I should make Peter pay me in pall-bearers
Show one a dollar, some'll bottlin' a dream
You don’t understand that when you reproduce
Everything you are is the product that you breed
God forbid a condom was a leak, and you fatherin' a seed
Jay Z, if you’re listenin' and you’re followin' the tweets
You probably didn’t speak to Obama before the speech
But I swear, he might not pass one gun control law
But I’m tryna get every last one of these Hollows up off the street
I will battle anyone on the card with this hand of Jesus
Don’t you niggas ever throw rocks at the sun, you can’t reach it

[Round 3: Hollow Da Don]
You talk about me sippin' lean
But in your "K.I.L.L.A.S." video, Fat Trel and them Sprite was all pink
I mean, you a low cokehead
I admit what I do to them, I don’t gotta lie to y'all, G
He probably was on the set on the low, tryna dog lean
You look like you low-key addicted to Tylenol 3's
My nigga, you talk about me sippin' and bein' in jail
The shit is depressin', you're just provin' me right
I can’t get this work, I got a criminal record
I do the crime, I do the time, I sit like a man
While I’m in there, L.O.M. shirts ship to Japan
ITunes, digitals, scans, so don’t think singles
Think Pringles: how I still stack chips in the can, nigga
He talkin' about Lean On Me
Well, I know you heard what happened in the face-off
So I’m glad I could do a movie reference once we face off
I mean, he was there for the fight
He pulled me to the side like an Israelite
He said: “Brother, I wasn’t feelin' that fight
See, Hollow, you livin' the life they portray in stereotypes
Now there’s gon' be some people that try to prove that you weak
You remember Menace II Society?
O-Dog, he like to pull shit in beef," I said I do remember…
And we don’t wanna hear that bullshit, Sharif!
Stop tryin' to teach us shit
He that old head that come on the block
Niggas be like, "Man, go ahead with that preachin' shit!"
We don’t wanna hear what Jesus did
Tell Al Sharpton eat a dick!
Beg my pardon, but I’m in the hood starvin' with no leadership
And you want me to listen?
Nigga, we don’t even know if you follow religious tradition
Are you Muslim, Christian, Catholic, Baptist, or Buddhism?
I don’t know, is you pickin'?
First time I knew dude was sniffin'
Is when I caught him uptown false preachin' in some True Religions
So let’s take him to church
Reverend, we understand you want somethin' to eat
But 40k? You wantin' a feast!
What you wantin' ain't cheap
You got them payin' a hundred a piece
Summer Madness 3, you know why we ain't do it?
He wanted a big pay-per-view percentage off of it
He wanted everyone to put a portion into the Porsche you in
It's porcelain; he want 40k guaranteed
And a percentage before they recoup the cost of it?
Damn, reverend! You damn near wanted all of it
Another nigga that get his bread and whine
But couldn’t clear his ties with the 10% Smack was offerin'
Let’s take him to church
I need y'all to open y'all iPhone's to Loaded Lux vers' Mook
Duration 7:28, verse two, and I quote
Reverend said he’s "all about his Benjamin’s"
Well, will them synonyms
Get you in the synagogue before you sin again?
'Cause reverend, you ain't L.O.M.
I mean, I could picture you on an infomercial
Three in the mornin', speakin' wild soft
Like, "You wanna get your demons right off?"
I got somethin' that was made for the robe of the Messiah
You see this brown cloth?
At the bottom of the screen you can talk to Jesus now, call
And sign your check to reverend Lux and Peter Popoff
And it be some dumb niggas that buy it
Fooled by the biblical words you know
But you know the role: when it come to them dead presidents, the preacher man be the first to go
Alright, let me get up out this church, don’t look at me sideways
Even a usher get knocked out his shoes for gettin' in my way
Lord, forgive me, let us pray
We are gathered here today
'Cause UW got Lux’ greedy-ass that 40k
On Earth as it is in Heaven, thou want to see him slain
It was written I’m the chosen one, that's why Hollow be thy name
Greedy-ass pastor, please!
I mean, you did everything after me
106 after me, Dash Living after me, URL after me
Now this nigga after me?!
I believe Lux will clap for the bucks, 'cause he ass to me
Now they askin' me, does he have to be an axe to me
To ask to me to actually be a half of me?
Wordplay like that beautiful
Wait, let me get back, I’m schoolin' you
Tutor you, shit you out, manure you, can you, tuna you
Underwater scuba you around water Bermuda
You couldn’t beat me if it was two of you
Wait, I’ll beat you and you, you and you, you and you
Let’s talk factually. Facts! Facts!
Kid Capri said you was greedy and wouldn’t give him cash
Or no, Sub Zero said you was greedy
And wouldn’t give him cash. Facts!
You held Conceited footage and made him reuse them lines
Facts! Where’s that 1000$ you owe Tech-9?
I mean, what happened to Lion’s Den?
They’re known for holdin' footage and cut-throatin'
Lyin' to battlers, "It’ll be on HBO!" what he just told 'em
This for every footage held and every buck stolen
I’ll give him a round, and if you lyin' then
You’ll never get up, Loaded
I said, last year we seen three legends choke, it was pitiful
First Canibus, then Lux, we like, "Shit is lookin' miserable."
I know I said three legends choked and only mentioned two
But the third one is what Rae Swag did to Mook
Harlem nigga, tell Mook move
He a corn, Mötley how my crew move
I'll put the heavy metal to Lux, air a Smith at you two
Wait… heavy metal deluxe, Aerosmith, U2
I said, this is the coldest fact yet
Nigga, you don’t have custody of your son
'Cause you don’t file taxes
So in court when they ask occupation you had to put none
I’m pretty sure your baby moms on welfare, you got one
This is 09/08, around the time when you were a bum
So you'd rather panhandle CD's on the street than get a 9-5?
Were you too good to fly through them friendly skies?
Oh, I know why! 'Cause niggas from the job'll be like
"That’s Loaded Lux from Smack!
I though he was flossin' on the grind
He’s workin' here? That nigga must be starvin' for a dime
But if you was a real man
For your lil man you’d put that talkin' to the side
But I guess your son ain't more important than your pride!
You should've got that work, nigga!
Now his son is inhalin' second-hand smoke
While playin' with his Tonka trucks, with the cartoons on high
'Cause he don’t wanna hear his moms get fucked
You should've got that work there, nigga!
How you know Calicoe's pops ain't try to fly through them friendly skies and got denied every time?
So he supposed to be like you
Waitin' weeks for 40k from a league? Nah
Blackface linked up with BMF and made 40k on the street
Whether right or wrong, who are you to judge that man’s fate?
What, you felt his vibe? You looked him in the eyes?
You felt his hand shake? What you thought?
He got life and they locked him up in a bad cave?
He’s a lost nigga? Well, I found him, now say it to Black's face!
Can you relate? Have you ever sat in that cell with them hunger pangs 'cause you got transferred to another jail
And it took a couple days 'til your money came?
You ever seen a blade open a face?
Sittin' in court, not knowin' your fate?
You get a letter that your man got killed
And you can’t go to the wake? I ain't think so
So think about that before you judge a life that you never lived
'Cause it’s easy to develop a large picture
When you're focused on the negatives
I’m at his true love's school, I’m lookin' for his bae bae
Even his biggest dickriders go
"Put that chopper down!" I may, Day
But everybody in that school still get screwed
Once I chop chop with that AK
'Cause over drama it don’t matter who kid that K slay
You had enough? 'Cause that chopper will clean him out
Boom! Leave him standin' where he stay
I could've got the 4-9 and spray, but I’m fantastic with the K
I said, my nigga, you ain't got a street bone in your body
But when it comes to streets — Head ICE, they fuck with him
'Cause when you was passin' out bibles, he was out there bubblin'
When you was spreadin' the word, he was out there hustlin'
That’s why the streets say, "That nigga ICE, he hot!"
I know it burns when I rub it in
I said, quit with all that Gandhi stuff!
Tellin' us "You're headed for your self-destruction"
Will only get your posse cut
Click over, everybody get bodied, yup
This nigga get a 9, this nigga a couple times
I’m tellin' you, your clique over, you ain't hear me on the other line?
I said, Loaded Lux? You ain't got enough
'Cause I come around loaded
For the diesel I’m in your pad touchin' your keys
In one click I have you down, Loaded
I said, Loaded Lux, and when he was homeless
His baby mom fault, she left him
With 50 bucks in Harlem, had Lux homeless
And other times he’s in the X with ten just roamin'
They said: "Is he broke?"
I said: "Fuck broke, he ain't got a buck, he broken!"
And they said, "I’ll be damned, I thought Lux was loaded."
I said, I seen him outside freezin', stuck and froze
It’s ironic 'cause I’m the one that’s fuckin' cold
But this is stuff he knows