Yeah, yeah
Let me get a little bit more beat
Yeah

Ask god if she believe in me and will she accept me as a deity
And tell me the secrecy won't keep you free
I'm sleeping, won't dream until the demons leave
I took a nap, I need a tree in the shade
Feel the sharpness of the swords and blades of grass
Picturing the images that make you laugh
I left you out to die but will you take me back
Somewhere in between the crazy and the conscious
She's naked underneath them shadows, let the sunlight undress her slow
I don't know who I am, I'm so good at doing impressions though
I'm going to the festival, the festival need to let me go
I wake up, pop a couple Benadrylls, go back to sleep
So I made up, everything they said was real, it has to be
Cause actually the master fast asleep
And the castles back back in his private quarters
That's a master for you, this a revolution, we don't have no order
All this torture, thought I had to warn you
Leave it all behind and go to California
I'm past the signs, it's the real thing, try analyzing this feeling
You can't fathom

(Little Dragon:)
My hands are ahead the clouds
From the clap-clap thunder looking down
While you're running around
I lift you up when you drown
Unlock the mission, the planet in rotation
Full speed chasing and you're always running ahead
You're always running ahead
You got second chances, happy birthday, sweet romances
And you paddle like a duckling, why
Don't wanna go, don't wanna go, don't wanna go to the festival
You got angels, we can see them dripping from the sky
You watch 'em with your third eye
Don't wanna go, don't wanna go, don't wanna go to the festival
To the festival

Hola, Malcolm. Hey man, it's Lois man. I'm calling, man, to tell you about the album.
I listened, it's good. I need to tell you, man. I tell everyone to listen to the music and it sound like they like it, man.
It sound like it good. I tell my wife "I'm so proud of him." I tell my girlfriend "I'm so proud of him."
And the album is good. It's so good. I cannot believe it. No one can beat you