Here we go again (Uh...)
Yeah (Uh... uh...)
That's right (Uh, uh, uh)
Here we go again (Hey, hey, uh-huh)
Ha, yeah (Uh, uh, uh, uh, uh)
This is the remix
Back together again, let's go, Mary
Yeah

All the love we gave, the lovin' that we made
Then you went away, so I had to pray
To see a brighter day 'cause I was led astray
Now I'm movin' on to get away from all this pain

I feel (I feel) better than I felt before (So much better, y'all)
'Cause there's no more drama knockin' at my door (No, no)
I feel (No more) better than I felt before
(Hey... ooh... ooh...)
'Cause there's no more drama in my life no more (No more)
No more (No more, no more), no more (No more, ooh...)

(This is the remix)
(I like this, come on)

It's lookin' better now, a brand new love I found
I finally figured out what love is all about
Now I'm on my way and all I have to say
Is there'll be no more cryin' and I truly believe that I

I feel (I feel) better than I felt before (So much better, better)
'Cause there's no more drama knockin' at my door (Than I ever)
I feel (Felt) better than I felt (Ooh, ooh) before
'Cause there's no more drama in my life no more

It's time to realize (Keep all this time)
It's up to you and I (Up to you and I)
Love is what you make it
If you don't give up the fight (Don't give up)
All this realness (Oh) that's all we need
(Believe in all your dreams, oh...)

A-yo', Mary
I don't think they ready for this one
You it's the D-I, D again, D to the Wheezy
Been in the game 12 years, it ain't easy
Been in them dames, got game that's so greasy
Spinnin' them thangs with a chain that's so freezy
Please believe me, TV need me
Far as the CD, pump that on GP
What's the 411, hon', it's P.D.
MJB collabo' with the DP
Period, no question, no comma
You're hearing this, no vest and no armor
Bring it to cats like Bush to Osama
Sippin' on Vu, make moves and no stama
Word to my mama, can't deal with the drama
That's why a n**** stay in the Bahamas
Playin' in pajamas, two sexy mamas
Body guards, top guns, two extra Hummers
I don't want no drama
(Say what)
(Talk to me, Mary)

I feel (I...) better than I felt before
'Cause there's no more drama (No more, no more, no more) knockin' at my door
I feel better (No more drama, y'all) than I felt before (It's too hard but I gotta say)
'Cause there's no more drama in my life no more (No more)
No more (I said no more), no more, no more (No, no), no more (No more, ey, hey...)
No more (No more, no more), no more (No more, no more, no more)
No more (No more, no more, no, no, no more), no more
(Ooh...)

I feel better than I felt before
'Cause there's no more drama knockin' at my door
I feel better than I felt before
'Cause there's no more drama in my life no more

No more, no more, no more, no more
(Thought I done lost all my friends, but I still feel real good)
No more, no more, no more, no more
(I feel so much better, so much better)