You got MC confusion? I'm Frontalot!
If I were MC Frontalittle I'd be telling you only ever what I'm not
But I am the most frontingest
Carving off the obfuscation, little something just
To confuse you with, and like a villain
I got conundrums, your empty head they gonna fill in
Still in effect, the mock you made?
My dexterity ain't 20 when the skills are displayed
'S OK, I took it as a compliment
Shows you know nerdcore's extent.

Which MC was that? I can't recollect
I heard him on the internet
It was MC Front-a-something, but I didn't hit save.
Which MC was that? I couldn't say.

Was it MC Chicken-in-the-Hat? I remember him
He was a fat dude, wait was he thin?
Now I know I seen his video up on the box
With the dirty-ass beak, calling roosters cocks
Got a feather like a pimp swaying up on the side
MC Chicken-in-the-Hat got pride
But I can't recall if it was him or not
(Psst, psst, it was MC Frontalot.)
Was it MC Razzle-Dazzle? Was it MC Plain?
Was it MC Indamirra AKA MC Vain?
Was it MC Pain-in-my-ears-just-to-listen?
(Nah, if it was him I wouldn't miss him.)
Was it MC Elephant, that would be relevant
My memory got crooked now it's hella bent.
Lemme think, I'm 'a figure out
Which MC are they talkin' about?

Which MC was that? I can't recollect
I heard him on the internet
It was MC Front-a-something, but I didn't hit save.
Which MC was that? I couldn't say.

Maybe it was MC Matter-of-Fact
Got the authenteezy easy ridin' his act
Always speaking the truth, "I never fronts one bit"
He and DJ So-Sincere don't quit
But I think for some reason that it wasn't him
Maybe it was MC Out-on-a-Limb?
With the very risky rappin', don't know what'll happen
To the time, a verbal contortionist
Squeezing tongue portions, sublime
On the mic 'cept for when the bough's breaking
Picked him out the line-up, mistaked him.
Yo, it was definitely MC Wrong
Rocking jam after jam of inaccurate songs
Then again it coulda been MC Insight
Striking suckers stone blind with the lyrical light
Must confess, I'm hard pressed to be certain
Was it MC Hides-Behind-the-Curtain
Calling "pay no attention to man on the mic"
Must be a wizard when he rhymes so tight
Having trouble trouble getting getting out of your brain: the fact
Of which MC was that?

Which MC was that? I can't recollect
I heard him on the internet
It was MC Front-a-something, but I didn't hit save.
Which MC was that? I couldn't say.

Step up poindexter, act smarter than you are
About to pull the MC name out the jar
And whoever guessed closest wins a nine-sided die
And a gift certificate to Fry's.
Yo the moniker is MC Frontalot
Got the plus one bag of nerdcore hiphop
And my mail list busted a hundred so I'm famous
It's unbelievable nobody know what my name is.