Danger, danger, anger, anger
Danger, danger, anger, anger

(Frustrated sighs)

Dangerous lyricists, angry shit, feeling it
Hatin' it, lovin' it, enough of it, enough of it
Dangerous lyricists, angry shit, feeling it
Hatin' it, lovin' it, enough of it, enough of it

Network system, I never lost a packet
In your system, overflow to hack it
Tragic, if you front on Plus+
Robust platforms, forms and transforms
Far from the norm, calm before the storm
Eye of the hurricane, lyrics insane
The code eats my brain
Anger, anger, danger, danger
Killing rampage, complete strangers

(Frustrated groan) (Son of a!)

It's another project, not another object
Another memory leak, wreaking havoc (Piece of!)
I've had it, another segfault I might grab it
I mean the machine, throw it through the screen
I might scream something obscene
I need to relax, but I'm drinking caffeine (groan)
Ready to rip out your spleen
Man I need to breathe, I need to leave
About to blow up, kinda like Tel-Aviv
Throw the mouse at the keyboard and curse the Lord
Another bus error, I might cut the cord
You might want to move if I'm moving toward you
You might want to run 'cause I might be the one (Bitch!)
Who lost all reason, don't give me a reason
To stop you from breathing and leave your momma grieving

(Yeah... Yeah!)

Dangerous lyricists, angry shit, feeling it
Hatin' it, lovin' it, enough of it, enough of it
Dangerous lyricists, angry shit, feeling it
Hatin' it, lovin' it, enough of it, enough of it

Compile, compile, before I get vile
Run without error, before I bring the terror
Losing my mind and running out of time
I gotta run, turn in by 11:59!
The project's due soon, but it won't do what I need it to (Aw come on!)
It's in an infinite loop
Don't understand why this condition's true
I'm changing the variable, with that assignment
Seems like my code gots a demon inside it (Piece of shit!)
Oh my, oh why don't I just give up?
I'm stuck in this while loop
It's enough to make me quit
I've had enough of this shit
Wait a minute (huh?), what the fuck is this?
"While (I < n)", then a semicolon? (groan)
Must've missed it, with no sleep
Just goes to show that even the most leet
Sometimes come so close to defeat
You miss easy shit when you're so deep
In the code but the road to success is
Don't get stressed, just keep it cool homie
And do your best