Dr. Dre:
You are now about to witness the strength of street knowledge!

Ice Cube:
Straight outta Compton, crazy motherfucker named Ice Cube
From the gang called ”Niggaz Wit Attitudes”
When I'm called off, I got a sawed-off
Squeeze the trigger and bodies are hauled off
You too, boy, if ya fuck with me
The police are gonna hafta come and get me
Off yo' ass, that's how I'm goin' out
For the punk motherfuckers that's showin out
Niggaz start to mumble, they wanna rumble
Mix 'em and cook 'em in a pot like gumbo
Goin' off on the motherfucker like that
With a gat that's pointed at yo' ass
So give it up smooth
Ain't no tellin' when I'm down for a jack move
Here's a murder rap to keep ya dancin
With a crime record like Charles Manson
AK-47 is the tool
Don't make me act a motherfuckin fool
Me and you can go toe to toe, no maybe
I'm knockin' niggaz out the box, daily
Yo weekly, monthly, and yearly
Until them dumb motherfuckers see clearly
That I'm down with the capital C-P-T
Boy, you can't fuck with me
So when I'm in your neighborhood you better duck
'Cause Ice Cube is crazy as fuck
As I leave, believe I'm stompin
But when I come back, boy, I'm comin' straight outta Compton

Ronnie Hudson:
City of Compton!
City of Compton!

Eazy-E and MC Ren:
Yo, Ren!
Whassup?
Tell 'em where you from!

MC Ren:
Straight outta Compton, another crazy-ass nigga
More punks I smoke, yo, my rep gets bigger
I'm a bad motherfucker and you know this
But the pussy-ass niggaz won't show this
But I don't give a fuck, I'ma make my snaps
If not from the records, from jackin at craps
Just like burglary, the definition is "jackin"
And when illegally armed it's called "packin"
Shoot a motherfucker in a minute
I find a good piece of pussy and go up in it
So if you're at a show in the front row
I'ma call you a bitch or dirty-ass ho
You'll probably get mad like a bitch is supposed to
But that shows me, slut, you're composed to
A crazy motherfucker from the street
Attitude legit 'cause I'm tearin up shit
MC Ren controls the automatic
For any dumb motherfucker that starts static
Not a right hand 'cause I'm the hand itself
Every time I pull a AK off the shelf
The security is maximum and that's a law
R-E-N spells “Ren” but I'm raw
See, 'cause I'm a motherfuckin villain
The definition is clear, you're the witness of a killin'
That's takin' place without a clue
And once you're on the scope, your ass is through
Look, you might take it as a trip
But a nigga like Ren is on the gangsta tip
Straight outta Compton

Ronnie Hudson:
City of Compton!
City of Compton!

Dr. Dre:
Eazy is his name and the boy is comin' ...

Eazy-E:
Straight outta Compton
Is a brother that'll smother yo' mother
And make yo' sister think I love her
Dangerous motherfucker raises hell
And if I ever get caught I make bail
See, I don't give a fuck, that's the problem
I see a motherfuckin cop, I don't dodge him
But I'm smart, lay low, creep a while
And when I see the punk pass, I smile
To me it's kinda funny, the attitude show a nigga drivin'
But don't know where the fuck he goin', just rollin'
Lookin' for the one they call Eazy
But here's a flash, they never seize me
Ruthless! Never seen like a shadow in the dark
Except when I unload
You see us flock and talk over our hesitation
And hear the scream of the one who caught the lead penetration
Feel a little gust of wind and know I'm jettin
But leave a memory no one'll be forgettin
So what about the bitch who got shot? Fuck her!
You think I give a damn about a bitch? I ain't a sucker!
This is the autobiography of the E
And if you ever fuck with me
You'll get taken by a stupid dope brother
Who will smother, word to the motherfucker
Straight outta Compton

Ronnie Hudson:
City of Compton!
City of Compton!

Dr. Dre:
Damn, that shit was dope!