Yo, man, there's a lot of brothers out there
Flakin' and perpetratin' who scared to kick reality
Yo, Dre, you been doin' all this dope producin'
You ain't had a chance to show 'em what time it is!
So watchu want me to do...?

I'm expressin' with my full capabilities
And now I'm livin' in correctional facilities
'Cause some don't agree wit how I do this
I get straight, and meditate, like a Buddhist
I'm droppin' flavour, my behavior is hereditary
But my technique is very necessary
Blame it on Ice Cube, because he said it get funky
When you got a subject and a predicate
Add it on a dope beat, and it'll make ya think
Some suckers just tickle me pink, to my stomach
'Cause they don't flow like this one
You know what, I won't hesitate to diss one or two before I'm through
So don't try to sing this
Some drop science, well I'm droppin' English
Even if Yella, makes it a cappella
I still express yo I don't smoke weed or sess
'Cause it's known to give a brother brain damage
And brain damage on the mic don't manage nuttin
But makin' a sucker and you equal
Don't be another sequel

Express yourself
Do it do...
Express yourself
Oh do it

Ice Cube, is not for the pop charts
So where should a brother like you start expressin' yourself?
My boy'll show you how! Yo Dre
Watup?
Drop English right about now
Gettin' back to the PG
That's program, and it's easy
Dre is back, New Jacks are made hollow
Expressin' niggers subject because they like to follow the words
The style, the trend, the records I spin
Again and again and again
Yo y'all on the other end
Watch a brother bringin' dope rhymes, with no help
There's no fessin' or guessin' when I'm expressin' myself
It's crazy to see people be what society wants 'em to be,
But not me!
Ruthless, is the way togo, they know,
Others say rhymes that fail to be original,
Or they kill where the hip-hop starts,
Forget about the ghetto, and rap for the pop charts!
And those musicians, that cuss at home,
But scared to use profanity, when up on the microphone,
Yeah they want reality, but chu won't hear none,
They rather exaggerate a little fiction!
Some say no to drugs, and take a stand,
But after the show they go lookin' for the Dopeman!
Oh they ban my group from the radio, 'here, NWA',
They say 'Hell no!'
But chu know it ain't all about wealth,
As long as you make a note to, express yourself!

Express Yourself!
Do it do...
Express Yourself!
Oh do it!

A lyricist, yo Dre is the name for it,
To make somethin' dope on a record that's what he came for,
Kickin' reality over stand us up,
But it's important to keep it in mind to Express Yourself!
From the heart if you wanna start and move up the chart then
Expression is big part of it.
You ain't efficient when you flow, you ain't swift,
Movin' like a tortise, full o' rigor mortis!
There's a little bit more to show,
I got rhymes in my mind, embedded like a embryo.
A lesson, all bout expression,
And if you start fessin, I got a smith 'n' weston for ya!
I might ignore you're record, because it has no bottom,
I get loose in the summer, winter, spring and autumn.
It's Dre on the mic gettin' physical,
Doin' the job, NWA is the lynch mob!
Yes I'm macabre, but chu know you need this,
And the night I just gone, just like a fetus,
Or tumor, heres the rumour, Dre's in the neighbourhood and he's up to no good!
When I start expressin myself, Yella slam me,
'Cause if I stay funky like dis, I'm doin' damage!
Or I'ma be too hype, and need a straightjacket,
I got knowledge, and other suckers lack it,
So when you see Dre, a DJ on the mic,
Ask what it's like, it's like we gettin' hype tonight!
'Cause if I strike, It ain't for your good health,
But I won't strike if you just Express Yourself!

Express Yourself!
Do it do...
Express Yourself!
Oh do it!