[Round 1: Aye Verb]
So Aye Verb finally gets to battle the big bad "Smack Killer"
The white boy from Canada who be boxing up and canning all of Smack's killers
Well, first off, ain't nobody scared of you sucka
On this stage I lyrically smack killers
And second, I'm a St. Louis nigga, we rep our own gang
Nigga we don't give a fuck 'bout Smack, nigga Smack killer
It's a difference between wild'n Charron
I mean you good for the ability you have but you're not wowing Charron
Nobody in barbershops says, "Wow" when Charron name pop up
You ain't fucking MC's up, your opponents should style on you bro
First off, niggas like you leave the violence alone
Because you're corny, you're good for the moment but never look good on cam' just like your stylist is Rone
I'm over your head with it, so in a big room y'all won't hear my shots, I ride with silencers on
At the event they gon' be tweeting "Verb lost" it don't be bothering me none
But when they watch it back they gon' be like, "I don't see him losing, wait/weight" like whatever workout DJ Khaled do holmes
I put my hands around this bitch throat not letting go like I don't wanna move on
Give Charron a hard hook and a good beating, you are now a good song
You can give me your best round and think you sped off til I'm rapping
You realize you ain't with no went nowhere nigga your mileage is wrong
I hear the Force be with you Anakin, on stage I ain't panicking
Handle shit like a Mandarin, rocket launch your little Malibu home
Kid you ain't good, nobody wants you
Organik run a group home
When a kid ain't good and nobody wants you, enough of that, let's move on
I saw you holding a gun, wearing a shirt repping confederate flags
I'm thinking, "This white boy got his head up his ass."
You need a CAT scan I approve, a backhand, powerful
Didn't no white man put you on Wild N' Out, nigga a black man hired you
See we both people, if you hate blacks keep that amongst you and those people
See your soul evil, soon as the light hit you, you couldn't wait to show people
Dr. King lost his life so we could stand on stage together
Those negros is whole heroes
You couldn't ever shake my hand motherfucker
Don't call me "bro" neither
You can rebuttal, apologize to the culture, it don't matter
With the blacks you can't take it back, we don't repo
Hood niggas wanna see you Charron, they so eager
Think I'm a monkey, well motherfucker look in the eyes of your Caesar
I said look at me, this is the real skin of your Jesus
Racist motherfuckers in battle rap, we don't need 'em
Here go the rules; 2:30 our rounds, you should make it
Tonight I don't get my soul took, I do the taking
You can do all your jokes and yo' gay shit
You facing Jason inspired by the Free Mason
Tonight I cover all bases in each stages of cremation
Aye Verb verse Charron see what the fuss is about
You say my name, they come bring that bread I put blood in they mouth

[Round 1: Charron]
Yo, you lost a judged battle versus Jimz
Time!
Nah, nah, nah in school we learned a verb describes an action
In battle rap we learned Aye Verb describes a "has been"
No Emma Stone, this is Easy A
I'll get another star off this body like it's GTA
You should be proving ground, you can't beat me, A
These days you ain't up to par, you should be a PG, A
I want someone that'll shoot a block up that'll really pop stuff, you talk tough
I'm only battling this bitch cause Carter Deems is locked up
Free Carter
Back in the day you could've got Lux
These days? Not much
You're a legend so this will help get my stock up
But I waited til you fell off and you lost touch
I'm Norman Bates, I kill 'em once they're washed up
Crazy, I actually might be
You're a carbon copy of every Smack rapper that spites me
In my past life I was kicked off Noah's Ark
Cause they couldn't find an animal like me
Who can kill Chaz Duncan? This monster can
And I'll put an M on it like Monster can
Now all the fans they can watch on cam' as I wig on this fake bitch Duncan (dunking) like Juwanna Mann
You choked vers' Caustic and took Illmac' for the cash
I was told to kill him by half of the staff
He gon' whine/wine once I snap him in half
Jesus Christ, this a body...that's why they gave him a cracker at Mass
Can you die anymore?
Like, how fucking long can you go on a retirement tour?
Smack tried to revive him with a 2 on 2
That was all you could bring?
You Owen Hart, cause your brother Hitman watched you fall off in the ring
Your death vers' Shine, Caustic and Illmac' was major
You commit career suicide then we see you on the camera later
Do I need to give you 13 Reasons Why you should grab a razor?
On tape your death has been passed on by more people than Hannah Baker
Yo I was hiding for the kill shot, then I'll walk away
Make sense they got a Canadian to end it off with A/eh
You lived up to your name, you're in need of help
There's a term "falling off" is a verb in itself
Since '09 you've been so dry, not  a verse that we've felt
Your slogan's showtime but you close the curtains on yourself
I said 2:00 minute rounds, I haven't liked you in a long time
So fuck a preview, let's let the beef brew, in 3D t- I'm on my own time
Suck my dick with your talk and behavior
You spin around in a circle I'll knock you out later
All you have is your slogan, it's audience tailored
I came here to say "Fuck Showtime" I'm Conor McGregor

[Round 2: Aye Verb]
No, no, no, no, no
You mean to tell me you had all that time to write
And you talked all that shit and you gon' stand in front of me with that cheesy shit?
I hate battle rap I'm too old
You do know they taping this, right?
You do know that they gonna play this shit back
Fuck that, rap however way you wanna rap I'ma keep giving 'em gold
How here we go
2:00 minute rounds

[Crowd]
They ain't book me for a long time
Preview, let's let that beef brew, in 3D too
So it's showtime

[Aye Verb]
It's a difference between lions and Simbas
I don't believe in y'all god Charron, I'm 5% 5%er, the other 95 is sinner
Nigga who want it? You harmless
Rip through your tissue like you Charmin
For a low price I'll get your crew hunted, I'll Groupon him
See you fortunate, I used to have to wear Pay Less shoes with cartoons on 'em
So you barking to me is true jargon
How I feel knowing I can walk through you while you jogging
See you play Contra, where I'm from we live Contra with no consciousness
Fuck around and be lit up hunched over on some Blanka shit
Use your common sense
You can't get compliments with yo' low level accomplishments
I'm still the best, I walk in the room and rappers still a threat
Walk by niggas I'm not finna battle and they intimidated by my silhouette
Check, if this nigga got bars well I'm the warden then
I write for y'all, get on stage and I be bored of them
Rebuttal? How? I don't listen when you rap
I envision me in a Florida wind, Benz getting floor and a bitch will do porn like, "Yeah"
This that smoking [?], X pill blue like Gargamel
Gang shit, all my niggas big in the C like the largest males
My dinner is bottled water kale
I don't do chicken dinners
You don't like black because your bitch don't like nigga in her
She told me when she grabbed his dick it's like picking up a fidget spinner
Magician with the hustle
You want an OZ come see the Wizard nigga
I just bought a Porsche, no windows tinted, it's a piano
It's music to my ears to hear my notes high, I'm a Soprano
Before K-Shine smacked you he hit the milli rock
He let his hand go, I'm a real MC, I paint vivid pictures like Van Gogh
Get stole on, really bro, get your stroll on silly ho
When I do a donut and have arms going round and round
It ain't the everybody Get Your Roll On video
I sat with the Big Tymers of sick rhymers
Y'all honored to watch the King Of The Dot savior get stigmata'ed
I'm a legend, you can't sniff this air or sit by us
Every round my shit gets wilder
Aye Verb vers' Charron you see what the fuss is about?
You say my name, they bring that bread

[Crowd]
I put blood in they mouth

[Round 2: Charron]
I said, watching you is like seeing an All-Star collapse on the court
These days you can only give us fire by passing the torch
Think you're worth a couple stacks? You don't know the Math in the sport
Your career is such a Dizaster that it's banned from New York
But your fans gas every punchline that you do
If they don't admit this is a rape it's an Unbias Review
So he'll ride up, real slow, kill mode
Two choppers, dodging dildos
You slacking, I'm catching bodies
This is passion vers' a passive hobby
Only thing we have in common is we're both sexually harassed by Bonnie
We're both survivors
For me? She tickled it down south
For you? She put a synthetic penis in or around your mouth
And you hate that too
Call a big homie, he'll aim that tool
Put the strap to his face, that's deja vu
They're like, "Charron, that's a gun bar, you can't write it."
Yeah, but it'll sound hard as fuck once Ave bites it
You've got no Future like Scottie Pippen's playlist
If he claim I'm a racist I'll erase this and re-tire him like pit stops in races
You fell off track, I'm here for funeral arrangements
Since they sleep on me, I have to show 'em what a wake is
Don't ask if A okay when I slay this
I'll put up a 3-0, that's A OK in sign language
He'll say I'm white, got slapped and claim I'm a fake Crip
You're using the same script
If they say Verb bait him (verbatim) it's cause you're repeating the same shit
Yo, when I connect he won't ice his neck
I'll ice his neck, tug off the chain that's around I.C.E.'s neck
Charron vers' Aye Verb, I apologize to my fans on Twitter
I just killed Smack's killer, it ain't a match to consider
You don't beat the game on expert then go back to beginner
You want war? Showtime's over, this an encore
I'm not even battling you, I'm just beating my top score
You hustle, I hustle a lot more
You hide your money in places like sock drawers
I hide my money in places that's offshore
What have you done for St. Louis? You lost form
I put on for my city and smoked Roc, I'm Rob Ford
I said listen Pay Verb, the leagues that book you need to blame their accountants
For you it's a pay day for me it's payback for all these Aye Verb announcements
Some say Dizaster is the greatest, there's no way I'll allow this
So tell Diz' I'll battle him for 60K once his parents raise his allowance

[Round 3: Aye Verb]
You remind me of a lawn care guy
Knock on your door and they be all happy and chipper
Sounding like Chucky and shit
"Hi, I'm Charron. And we have a special."
"Did I ask you nigga?"
"You really need to look at seeding this grass and adding a little water to make it last through winter."
And I just look back at him with a blank face like, "Who gives a fuck? It's just grass my nigga."
I got inspired by a first graders oil painting
The innocence of the mind before tainted
Free wheel before the cramp in the stomach of court cases
Being a target is what the law make us
Aye I told this bitch, "Fucking this regular nigga you gon' get bored baby
[?] you fucking me gon' make you famous."
More faces, more faces
Fucking with a nigga who hustle increases your patience
Party at the crib we need more maintenance
Floors stained, girls spilling liquor we need more maintenance
More maintenance
I don't understand your language if you convo don't start with where we see your payment
I only text five words, how much are y'all paying?
I need a mansion with my kids all in the yard playing
Hands never fold, whatever is in my cards, play 'em
St. Louis nigga, lyrical gift from God who's talent touches the stars, it's kinda odd ain't it?
If it ain't foreign then them cars basic
If she ain't going then that broad faking
Old school I only fuck with the weed y'all can keep all of oil bases
I only black, yeah this boy racist
A 100 racks got my heart racing
I'm from the hood where everyday there gon' be car chasing
Painted candy, Now N Later, Jaw Breaker, [?] jaw breaker
And his whole verse rhyme, what is y'all saying?
I embody the souls of the greats
Watch how my mind rolls back as I flow through this tape
I embody the souls of the Grapes
Watch how my minds flow back as I go through this tape
I get with drawls from killing y'all sometimes I go through the shakes
I ain't forgetting...
It's just my sixth sense coming on right now watching your soul go through the gates
I ain't come here to kick it bitch, I dove through the gates
When it's money I don't see color my mood switch to snake
This gon' be a long body, watch the motion it make
Drum spin, like a combination lock up in his face then [?]
And do the same motion as when you open a safe
I told his bitch, "Open your mouth. Go back and forth. Come on let's debate."
With this music shit I had a hit with the majors still thinking I'm in the negro league
That mean I got a hit and still ran through the base
That's drug talk
Aim good, snipe him from a distance there's no blood to rub off
Ain't no reason I hold it against you nigga, no love lost
Black man, killing a white bitch, this OJ with the gloves off
That was a low shot, so what? Fuck it, nigga the gloves off
Third round this when the match turn the wheel and I take the gloves off
Do something, I'll send a drummer with a fro like The Roots coming
Hear pain coming out your mother mouth like when a wisdom tooth come in
Aye Verb vers' Charron see what the fuss is about
Massachusetts, y'all been great, that's what I'm talking about

[Round 3: Charron]
See the difference between us is I can freestyle with no preparation
He called me a lawn care guy, make some noise if you want a lawn care demonstration
Yo I only got a couple minutes so you should check the time
I just did your neighbors lawn, you should check outside
But wait, I am the lawn care guy I got to eject that rhyme
Cause if it's lawn care for that green I came here to push this pest aside (pesticide)
Happy retirement, I thought you'd forfeit sooner
I hope Smack gave you a 401K to afford your future
You quit cause you fell off, you're the sorest loser
I could beat you even if I pulled out my phone like that The Saurus loser
I've had enough of your battles
All this huffing and puffing, you do a whole lot of nothing in battles
You're lazy, you don't give a fuck 'bout this battle
You don't see your kids, you weren't even inspired for your custody battle
They're pessimistic you'll ever visit, you're reckless with it
You'll get beat dead you dead beat, I'm dyslexic with it
You got that, "I only do it for the money" curse
I got that, "I'm so hungry that my stomach hurts"
Diva, full of fucking thirst
Want the red carpet but your lesbian mother munched it first
And look what happened to him?
He turned his back on his kids like his dad did to him
Growing up his mom permed his hair and grew an attachment to 'em
She spent so much time raising a bitch she became attracted to them
I used to admire you, really battle rap doesn't inspire you
Look at me when I retire you

{Crowd starts chanting 3-0}

[Charron]
Tombstone says "R.I.P." on top
Which stands for "Retire In Peace" I got this
Send Aye Verb to A. Ward's priest to watch, deacon's talk
This is the part where his guardian angel's wings get chopped
Blackout 7 was Good Friday, you gon' reach the top
Now we say bye to you at MASS? Don't you see the plot?
They set you up on Easter weekend for me to make your breathing stop
These people are giving him the same treatment that Jesus got
So this is how it all ends, with a guy named Charron?
You went from firing chrome to letting someone who got slapped put you in a retirement home?
Like what are you gonna do? You're just a useless rhymer
Your career sank so low you could be a scuba diver
Are you gonna do "showtimes" to impress your supervisor?
Next time you see him he'll ride up...as your Uber driver
Like you gonna work at Quizno's? Mad as a customer pouts
Like, "I don't know what all the fuss is about
They say my name, you cut the bread, I put the subs in they mouth."
Stop listening to popular bloggers
Start paying attention to all of your daughters, and your son
Save up for college, you could call him a scholar
All you want is these dollars
You and Lux ain't gonna happen, you too washed for the offer
It's time to man up, get a job, and make all of us stronger
Ayo, Chaz Jr.! That's the way you talk to your father!