Words & Music by Shel Silverstein & Dennis Locorriere
I've got a couple more years on you, babe,that's all.
I've had more chances to fly and more places to fall.
And it ain't that I'm wiser - it's only that I've spent
more time with my back to the wall.
And I've picked up a couple more years on you, baby, that's all.

I've walked a couple more roads than you, baby ,that's all.
And I'm tired of runnin' while you're only learning to crawl.
And you're headin somewhere , but I've been to somewhere
and found it was nowhere at all.
And I've picked up a couple of years on you baby , that's all.

Now sayin' goodbye, girl don't never come easy at all.
But you've got to fly 'cuz you're hearin' those young eagles call.
And someday when you're older, you'll smile at a man strong and tall.
And you'll say I've got a couple more years on you, baby - that's all.

I've got a couple more years on you baby , that's all.
You'll say I've had more chances to fly and more places to fall.
It ain't that I'm wiser it's only that I've spent
more time with my back to the wall.
And I've picked up a couple more years on you baby, that's all."Boots Of Spanish Leather"

Oh I'm sailin' away my own true love
I'm sailin' away in the morning
Is there something I can send you from across the sea
From the place that I'll be landing ?

No, there's nothin' you can send me, my own true love
There's nothin' I wish to be ownin'
Just carry yourself back to me unspoiled
From across that lonesome ocean.

Oh, but I just thought you might want something fine
Made of silver or of golden
Either from the mountains of Madrid
Or from the coast of Barcelona ?

Oh, but if I had the stars from the darkest night
And the diamonds from the deepest ocean
I'd forsake them all for your sweet kiss
For that's all I'm wishin' to be ownin'.

That I might be gone a long time
And it's only that I'm askin'
Is there something I can send you to remember me by
To make your time more easy passin' ?

Oh, how can, how can you ask me again
It only brings me sorrow
The same thing I want from you today
I would want again tomorrow.

I got a letter on a lonesome day
It was from her ship a-sailin'
Saying I don't know when I'll be comin' back again
It depends on how I'm a-feelin'.

Well, if you, my love, must think that-a-way
I'm sure your mind is roarmin'
I'm sure your thoughts are not with me
But with the country to where you're goin'.

So take heed, take heed of the western wind
Take heed of the stormy weather
And yes, there's something you can send back to me
Spanish boots of Spanish leather.