[Mélanie Rutherford:]
Ryan!

[Royce Da 5'9":]
I am not trying to be in the store all day
Y'all can play the game one time
Let me go get change for a dollar real quick
Hey my man, what's up, you got change for a dollar?
What's up, man? You don't remember me do you? (Ryan!)
I remember you. I remember you, definitely
I remember you took my basketball and wouldn't give it back
Cause I dribbled it inside the store but I was just messing with you
Plus that was my lucky ball
My Dad got it signed by Isaiah Thomas so I kept it with me

Everywhere I went I used to bounce that ball
Everywhere I used to go I used bounce that, bounce that ball
I'm little Ryan from 16650 Bayers
Remember me? I used to buy all the mystery mix Now And Laters
I used to wait for God to come down and answer all my prayers

[Mélanie Rutherford:]
Never asked for much when I sat down and say my prayers
All I ever, ever wanted was to be amazing (Ryan!)

[Royce Da 5'9":]
Same little boy used to walk to the corner store
Who used to get the Funyun chips
Who ended up, dumb, young, and rich
I had young parents but they both were strict
I had a supersticious Grandad, wait, scratch that, crazy Grandad
I seen him turn his hat around three times
Drive his car around the corner three times in reverse
Just 'cause he crossed paths with a black cat
Man, you remember Hank? He used to be a jimmy at the market
My Mom used to do his laundry
He used to have me and my brothers dyin' laughing at him
Talkin about: you know you can't leave them clothes in the washing machine too long when they get done washed
And still put 'em in the dryer
Doing that makes the clothes stink
Damn, being back here bring back so many memories
You sure you don't remember me? You remember the ball
Everywhere I went I used to bounce that ball
Everywhere I used to go I used bounce that, bounce that ball
Nigga, everybody know little Ryan from 17150 North Long
I used to come and cop pork rinds
I used to watch drug dealers come through in cars
Like, if I get one of those, its showtime

[Mélanie Rutherford:]
Never asked for much when I sat down and say my prayers
All I ever, ever wanted was to be amazing (Ryan!)

Is that Ryan? Is it always good to see him in the neighborhood
Hey baby! How your momma? Look at that car, he done done it
I told y'all he was gonna do somethin'...

Ryan!

[Royce Da 5'9":]
Wow, this is overwheling
It feels like it was just yesterday I was watching Good Times wishing I could get ahold of Thelma
Fighting with my brother over channels
I like watching movies
He likes stupid shit like Robin Williams going Nanu Nanu
Whatever that stupid ass show called
I ain't around here being no attention whore
I need niggas to look at these whips for every time we got those extension cords
God, I miss my big brother so much
He went to prison so much that I don't think I'd recognize him these days much
But I'mma always know what to get him from the Ice Cream truck
He used to get the Push-up Pops
I used to get the Snow Cone
I used to wanna be just like Turbo
He used to want to be Ozone
I got all the kids waving at me
All the elderly off they high horse
They wouldn't even let a nigga play twenty-one in the driveway
Nowdays the ball is in the my court (Ryan!)
Everywhere I went I used to bounce that ball
Everywhere I used to go I used bounce that, bounce that ball
Everybody going 'ain't that... little Ryan from over there on Morrow
I ain't seen him since he was a baby'
Well I'm back in town to let people know that you don't need no lucky ball, you already amazing
And I'm still your neighbor
Little ol' Ryan

[Mélanie Rutherford:]
And God bless the child no matter how long it seems, somehow he'll find his way home
It's so important baby
Between the memories and family, I don't know which one is more amazing

Never asked for much when I sat down and say my prayers
All I ever, ever wanted was to be amazing