Blood's spilling now on my killing grounds
Lost count of the coffins, I'm filling out
Your heart's gonna pound, when y'all run around
But I'll hunt you down, gut you, leave you disemboweled

I wound up in a nightmare, like where?
Now I'm pulling out all of my hair, I'm scared
If I make a single sound he'll know I'm right there
But if someone else needs some help, why should I care?
Hunker down in this house, gotta hide - where?
Doubt I'll make it out, oughtta get a timeshare (nope!)
Mr. Killer, can you cut me a deal?
And let me live if I'm not dead by daylight - fair?
I can feel my heart beat in my ears
I really fear hearing that means he could be near
What kind of evil Entity could be keeping me here?
I got a checklist of objectives that need to be cleared (go, go, go, go!)
So forget about the lore, and ignore the backstory
I'd rather leave for good, can I have a trapdoor key? (please?)
I'm not a fan of horror movies that gory
I'm squeamish - and I'll be screaming when he's back for me
Wonder if I hide, will he look?
I've been sliced, diced and iced, chilled and cooked
I could write a survival guide and fill a book
Everybody get ready for the killer hook

Lost track of all the kills I've been countin', call me crazy
You're just another notch on my belt, I'm sorry baby
When they die, they rise again
They'll never set their eyes on the daylight again
And that will never change
You can't escape but you can hang

I've never been a handyman and I'll admit it
I got a box of tools, no clue what I'm doing with it
Pity, my mechanical skills are nonexistent
"Quit making so much noise" - at least I'm tryna fix it!
Agh! He's coming after me, while he's distracted
Is it too much to ask to get a generator active?
After that, can somebody patch up my gashes?
"But if I stick my neck out, the killer's gonna slash it"
C'mon team, it's a four-on-one
So until you stop breathing - you're not done
Thank God this job comes with a lot of perks
When you're stuck with a bunch of punks who don't wanna work
'Cause we all got chores, let's do a little more please
I feel like a single mother - call me Mrs. Voorhees
Used to hide, now I thrive as a fighter
Destiny's Child - I'm a survivor

Lost track of all the kills I've been countin', call me crazy
You're just another notch on my belt, I'm sorry baby
When they die, they rise again
They'll never set their eyes on the daylight again
And that will never change
You can't escape but you can hang

Even death is no escape
Yo psycho, you don't scare me
When I'm done I'll wipe your blood off my blade
Well at least you're sanitary
I'll take all your friends to their graves
They're used to getting carried
Forever here with me you'll stay
How sweet, does that mean we'll get married?

Oh please, you'll need more than a bear trap to snag me
Keep in mind, even The Hag couldn't bag me
I could be bleeding, this crappy Trapper couldn't track me
Should've asked the Huntress to chuck some hatchets at me
Wait, I see you Wraith, you ain't sneaking past
Cannibal, want a snack? You can eat my ass
Inbred Hillbilly, ugly country bumpkin
That's a burn, ask the Nurse to prescribe you something
The Doctor cannot start operating
Wanna shock me but I'm not cooperating
I fell asleep on Elm Street 'cause it was boring
The Nightmare stopped when I started snoring
Mike, you're in bad Shape, you took a bad turn
What's the matter, someone smash your Jack-o-lantern?
I'll Clown on you and have the last laugh
With my power jukes, you got bad gas
This little Piggy ain't fit for the Jigsaw
Put me in a jaw trap - I just took the thing off
I'm the hero of the story, make a villain quit
Was a survivor, now I'm the one killing it

Lost track of all the kills I've been countin', call me crazy
You're just another notch on my belt, I'm sorry baby
When they die, they rise again
They'll never set their eyes on the daylight again
And that will never change
You can't escape but you can hang

You can't escape but you can hang
You can't escape but you can hang
You can't escape but you can hang
You can't escape but you can hang