I come from it, but it seems impossible to run from it
All the evil I did to people then none could stomach?
No cause when my spirits go up now every one plummets
I can light all, with this angel but that demon will make the brightfall
When your angle is to reason with those who night crawl
Psycho searchin so they get even with a life you lost and was leavin
But it might be costin this season when the fight calls
People change their life of sin
Then try to negate the back they aimed the knife within
A shame, I can with the game and be nice to friends then bang
My revenge it came to wipe this grin then pain
Fight your demons I'd advise it, its there no matter how you try to hide it
In private you're running from the people that despise it
Don't you lie and deny this sick hybrid
Angel demon ain't no leavin either one
Can't take it back where you got this evil from
This magnitude the angel will need a gun
So much evil I saw, in the past I was bad now I'm right ya'll
But the evil remains to make the brightfall

God knows I'm trying
It seems like I'm always fighting for my life
For my soul
This won't bring me down

All I want is heaven but the evil forces they follow me
Plottin on my body to attempt to torch it or hollow me
I cannot let the depths of hell to rise up and swallow me
I'm tryna make it where the other angels and God'll be
This is terrible fightin the past me is unbearable
Never really mattered if my symbols and outfit were clerical
Judging today for past demons make me hysterical
Darkness is blinding take me back in the city of Jericho
Darkness will not win my heart is really not grim
But the chances of me becoming pure angel has got slim
I'm stuck and I'm blocked in
Brightness the plots been wanna frolic in God
I'm lookin for solace but it got dim
How can I detach from the past heinous acts
Will I last
Will they attack with a blast?
When the night calls, it's gonna be a nice brawl
For the darkness to come and make my brightfall

Get it out! Spit it out! Evil in ya mix! Rid it out!
Don't ever wanna see, what that pit about
We just stomp, we just thump, we just grit it out
Get it out! Spit it out! Evil in ya mix! Rid it out!
Don't ever wanna see, what that pit about
We just stomp, we just thump, we just grit it out

I'm fighting for a bright life, but evil wanna consume me
And my soul is the right price
That would literally be a fright night
But I ain't sellin' my soul to hell
Angels yellin' propellin' flight heights
Wanna spread those angel wings
But they have wicked entangled things
Like steaming hot tar with the stench of brimstone
Knee in God's yard
Can I repent the sin gone?
Did that done that then the evil comes back
Runnin' from myself it seems it ain't no runnin' from that
Just when you wanna start anew
They judge you on what you used to be
Thus makin' it harder too but I refuse to lose
Even if I gotta be banged and bruised
Why do we have to battle just to go the bright route
Oh well I'm bout to beat this hell until it's lights out

Alive and I'm well, did I win in hell?
The fight just to save my soul
Cause time and time again
When I crawl to the light I land in sin
Now my sins so far away
That darkness will never find me

Hideous hideous... grotesque grotesque...