(Yo)
(This is the first freestyle, since the shina's got out of line)
(Young Money)

Young Money Cash Money (yeah)
I'm the young boy.
I'm cold with little recognition like Brandon Roy (what up).
I'm 'bout to go nuts for fun, call it almond joy (get it).
And I'm a be hotter in the summer, corduroy.
The Young Money popstar (yeah)
I'm a rock her
I got your girl combination, watch how I'll lock her.
Get it. They say I'm silly
Well I'm a lease a rapper to the youngin' Lil' Diggy.

Re-Rest in peace Pac
Re-Rest in Biggy, but Twizzy
I'm more like The Beatles in my city (rock).
Why? Cause I know what's uppa
And I don't call these young artists rappers, they're suppa.
I'm eating all these rappers, whoever claim they better.
I tell them to get off my meat, my pecker, wood and my decker.
And get ready cause I'm comin' for ya
Better get your whole team to start running for ya.

Holdin' campaign'ins. I don't care if your famous.
I'm on fire like I'm cannon
It won't help me if it's rainin', not complainin'.
Cause I'm indestructible. Crazy mother truckable
When I'm livin' like the Huxtables.

Now get off my testicles. I'm illy-illy
The kid like Gille willy.
I get more "P" than a hat of a Philly, hold up.
Well let me keep that to myself.
Black and White like the ref.
I'm rockin' shows for the def, ugh.
I'm the hardest working artist, I'm the smartest,
I'm the modest. Kick em out just like I'm Martin and get out. (ugh)
101 game now sit out.
And if I'm nasty to you haters, you can go and spit out.

I be doing if I flop.
Better grab your tissue when my ish drop.
Cause it's gonna be like diarrhea, droppin' stacks at galleria.
Hollin' at these mama mia's (yeah)
I'm so Inkredible, switchin' up on ya kids, you better buy a vowel.
I make you sweat so you better buy a towel.
And I know who's who's now who's looking for the aisle.

Not we, cause we are Young Money.
We sick in your tummy, we make your nose runny.
Yeah we make your nose runny, got a house full of chicks,
I call em Twist Clyde Bunnies (yeah).

Sh-Shall I keep going? Keep flowing?
Throw my chain up, and then it starts snowing
Start storming, start hailing.
Whatever they call it.
Yeah it's hailing cause it's ice falling, yeah your kid still ballin'.

I'm runnin' out of breath, I'm feelin myself.
If no one else (who cares)
Cause I don't care about what you do.
Because it's me against you like
2x2 or 3x3 yes I'm a do me.
Spell my name "T" "W" Mr capital "T".
Oh wait I missed the freakin "I" "S", cause I is the best.
And I will freakin dissect, all you freaking rappettes.

I'm nasty on the track like rat sex.
I'm happy, because I got a mad check.
Mr. Little "T". Mr 1 point 3 young mula ba-by. (yeah)

(Ok)
(I just had to go in. Ya dig)
(Shout out to my little bro, Diggy, I see you Mr. Atlantic)
(Young Money)
(I see you Fareed)
(Ya Dig)