[Hook]
My heart starts to fade away. Hard fight with fate today
Heart sparks then fade away. Fade away, I fade away
Jump shot fade away, want these thoughts to fade away
Fade away, I fade away. Drum drop, 808

Lavish, living lavish. Living laxed, with vivid Alice trips from drips of acid sips down into my last wits. Last week I was asked if I had mixed joy with anesthetic, cause my aesthetic with happiness was pathetic with avid wrists. On to another kick
Slumber through the thunder, man. I wonder if I can understand without standing under it. Probably not
I'm on a penny board. Why you drinking henny for?
Whiskey's what I wanted, go and get me more
Penny pinching, please won't you send me more?
For two dollars a day you can feed me booze in many forms
I don't feel the need to lessen my attention to these lessons
I've left legions of lesions on the lease of all these decisions

[Hook]

[Chorus]
Once upon a time there was a happy ending. Now I'm tending to a tender life from spending time and money on me. This season I am rebuilding. Filling up on filler till I'm fine and living

Cruel case of leaving your cadaver unattended
So my caffeine fueled highs lead to crashes in under minutes
When these body snatchers learn to swim with all the fishes
You better pray to God that you solidify their wishes
What's a motion without some direction?
Which emotion have y'all gone and checked in?
I just check on my watch to see if I'm killing time or wasting precious seconds
Literally a little keyed from key bumps or kissing me. But tragedy is chasing me to agitation cased in tween of ecstasy, tenacity. No sense to me. No sense in sonnet sets, don't speak
Let me get inside your fucking head and sleep
Hibernate till time to wait in funeral line
But its like I always say "bliss is only beautiful to the blind"

[Hook]

[Chorus]

[Fellow the Ogre]
I'll love you for another sip
My best friend is a sink ship
King of the luxury water bed
I have exuberant plans for sleeping in
Steeping in an acid glass. Sleeping in a blanket as
I drown myself with booze & jest in a shit attempt to redact my past
So pull me apart to watch my molecules reattach
I'm made from many patterns some are good some are bad

[Jinerik]
I know life has some meaning, its in the dictionary
Its just a word we take to heart, purpose is quite contrary
What drives me, drives me nuts. And my tears are building rust
Must be nice never having to think so damn much

Passion only burns if you allow the flames to blaze
Light a square from the embers man this life is such a haze
I've seen open ended questions answered by unopened bottles
And swear by your pinky finger that it is not a problem

And lying only sets you back about 8 fucking years
Desensitized by fallacy, my policy is clear
If you believe my wicked ways then truly you are kind
But god forbid I tell the truth, you lose your fucking mind